SCIENTIFIG STOCK
HORECASTING

OR

LARGE PROFITS ON
SMALL RISKS

THE

TICKER

INVESTMENT DIGEST

{nvestment: The placing of capital in
a more or less permanent way, mainly
for the income to be derived there-
from.

Vol. 5

DECEMBER, 1909

Speculation: Operations wherein In-
telligent foresight is employed for the
purpose of deriving a profit from price
changes.

WILLEAME D. GANN

An Operator Whose Science and Ability Place Him in the front Rank~
His Remarkable Predictions and Vrading Record,

this magazine was attracted by
certain long pull stock market
predictions which were being made by
Witham D. Gann. In a large nuniber
of cases Mr. Gann gave us m advance
the exact points at which certain stocks
and commodities would sell, tovether
with prices close to the then prevail
figrures whick would not be touched.
for instance, when New York Cen-
tral was 131 he predicted that it weuld
sell at 145 before 129.

So repeatedly did his figures prove
to be accurate, and so different did his
work appear from that of any expert
whose methods we had examined, that
we set about to investigate Mr. Ganu
and his way of figuring out these pre-
dictions, as well as the particular use
which he was making of them in the
market.

The results of this investigation are
remarkable in many ways.

It appears to be a fact that Mr.
Gann has developed an entirely new

QS his na kK ago the attention of

idea as to the principles governing
stock market movements. He bases
his operations upon = certain natural

laws, which, though existing since the
world began, have only in recent years
been subjected to the will of man, and
added to the list of so-called modern
discoveries.

We have asked Mr. Gann for an
outline of his work and have secured
some remarkable evidence as to the
results obtained therefrom, We subtit
this in full recognition of the fact that

in Wall Street a oman with a new
ideas -an idea which violates the tra-
dittons and encourages a scientific view
of the proposition=-1s aot usually wel-
comed by the majority, for the reason
that he stimulates thought and re-
search, “Phese activities said majority
abhors.

Mr. Gann’s deseription of his exper-
ence and methods is given herewith.
{t should be read with a recognition
of the established fact that Mr. Gann’s
predictions have proved correct in a
large majority of instances.

“lor the past ten years T have de-
voted my entire time*and attention to
the speculative markets. Like many
others, T lost thousands of dollars and
experienced the usual ups and downs
incidental to the novice who enters
the market without preparatory knowl-
edge of the subject.

“[ soon began to realize that all
successtul men, whether lawyers, doc-
tors, or scientists, devoted years — of
time to the study and investigation of
thetr particular pursuit or profession
befors attempting to make any money
out of it

“Beg in the brokerage business
mvself and handling large accounts, [
had opportumities seldom alforded the
ordinary man for studyimeg the cause
of suceess and failure on the specula-
tions of others. [ found that over
ninety per cent of the traders who go
mto the market without knowleage or
study usually lose in the end.

“f£ soon began to note the periodical

recurrence of the rise and fall in stocks
and commodities. This led me to con-
clude that natural law was the basis of
market movements. I then decided
to devote ten years of my life to the
study of natural law as applicable to
the speculative markets and to devote
my best energies toward making spec-
ulation a profitable profession. After
exhaustive researches and _ investiga-
tions of the known sciences, I discov-
-ered that the Law of Vibration en-
-abled me to accurately determine the
exact points to which’ stocks or com-
modities should rise and fall within a
given time. The working out of this
law determines the cause and predicts
the effect long before the Street 1s
aware of either. Most speculators can
testify to the fact that it is looking
at the effect and ignoring the cause
that has produced their losses.

“It is impossible here to give an ade-
quate idea of the Law of Vibration
as I apply it to the markets, however,
the layman may be able to grasp some
of the principles when I state that the
Law of Vibration is the fundamental
law upon which wireless telegraphy,
wireless telephones and phonographs
are based. Without the existence of
this law the above inventions would
have been impossible.

“In order to test out the efficiency
of my idea I have not only put in
years of labor in the regular way, but
I spent nine months working night
and day in the Astor Library of New
York and in the British Museum of
London, going over the records of
stock transactions as far back at 1820.
1 have incidentally examined the ma-
nipulations of Jay Gould, Daniel Drew,
Commodore Vanderbilt and all the
other important Wall Street manipu-
lators from that time to the present
day. I have examined every quotation
of Union Pacific prior to and from
the time of E. H. Harriman’s securing
control, and can say that of all the
manipulations in-the history of Wall
Street, Mr.. Harriman’s was the most
masterly. The figures show _ that,
whether unconsciously or not, Mr.
Harriman worked strictly in accord-
ance with natural law.

“In going over the history of mar-
kets and the great mass of related sta-
tistics, it soon becomes apparent that
certain laws govern the changes and
variations in the value of stocks and
there exists a periodic or cyclic law,
which is at the back of all these move-
ments. Observation has shown that

a

there are regular periods of intense
activity on the Exchange followed by
periods of inactivity. Mr. Henry Hall,
in his recent book devoted much space
to ‘Cycles of Prosperity and Depres-
sion’ which he found recurring at
regular intervals of time. The law
which I have applied will not only give
these long cycles or swings, but the
daily and even hourly, movements of
stocks. By knowing the exact vibra-
tion of each individual stock I am able
to determine at what point each will
receive support and at what point the
greatest resistance is to be met. _

“Those in close touch with ‘the
markets have noticed the phenomena
of ebb and flow, or rise and fall in
the value of stocks. At certain times
a stock will become intensely active,
large transactions being made in it;
at other times this. same stock will
become practically stationary or inac-
tive with a very small volume of sales.
I have found that the Law of Vibra-
tion governs and controls these condi-
tions. I have also found that certain
phases of this law govern the risé in
a stock and an entirely different rule
operates on the decline.

“While Union Pacific and other rail-
road stocks which made their high
prices in August were declining, United
States Steel common was steadily ad-
vancing. The Law of Vibration was
at work, sending a particular stock on
the upward trend, whilst others were
trending downward.

“T have found that in the stock it-
self exists its harmonic or inharmonic
relationship to the driving power or
force behind it. The secret of all its
activity is therefore apparent. By my
method I can determine the vibration
of each stock and by also taking cer-
tain time values into consideration |
can in the majority of cases tell exact-—
ly what the stock will do under given
conditions.

“The power to determine the trend
of the market is due to my knowledge
of the characteristics of each individ-
ual stock and a certain grouping of
different stocks under their proper
rates of vibration. Stocks are like
electrons, atoms, and molecules, which
hold persistently to their own individ-
uality in response to the fundamental
Law of Vibration. Science teaches
‘that an original impulse of any kind
finally resolves itself into periodic
or rhythmical motion,’ also ‘just as
the pendulum returns again in its

swing, just as the moon returns in its

orbit, just as the advancing year ever
brings the rose of spring, so do the
properties of the elements periodically
recur as the weight of the atoms
rises.’

“From my extensive investigations,
studies and applied tests, I find that
not only do the various stocks vibrate,
but that the driving forces controlling
the stocks are also in a state of vibra-
tion, These vibratory forces can only
be known by the movements they
generate on the stocks and their val-
ues in the market. Since all great
swings or movements of the market
are cyclic they act in accordance with
the periodic law.

“Science has laid down the principle
that ‘the properties of an element are
a periodic function of its atomic
weiptit. A famous scienust has stat-
ed that ‘we are brought to the con-
viction that diversity in phenomenal
nature in its different kingdoms, is
most intimately associated with numer-
ical relationship. “The numbers are not
icermixed, chaotically and acci:dental-
ly, but are subject to regular period-
icity. The changes and developments
are also seen to be in many cases
undulatory.’

“Thus, I affirm, every class of phe-
nomena, whether in nature or in the
stock market, must be subject to the
universal law of causation and har-
mony. Every effect must have an
adequate cause.

“If we wish to avert failure in spec-
ulation we must deal with causes.
Everything in existence is based on ex-
act proportion and perfect relationship.
There is no chance in nature, because
mathematical principles of tne highest
oruer he at the foundation of afl things.
Faraday said: There is nothing in the
Universe but mathematical points of
forre.

“Vibration is fundamental; nothing
is exempt trom this law; it is univer-
sal, therefore applicable to every class
of phenomena on the globe.

“Through the Law of Vibration ev-
ery stock in the market moves in its
own distinctive sphere of activities, as
to intensity, volume and direction; all
the essential qualities of its evolution
are characterized in its own rate of
vibration. Stocks, like atoms, are real-
ly centers of energies, therefore they
are controlled mathematically. Stocks
create their own field of action and
power; power to attract and repel,
which principle explains why certain
stocks at times lead the market and

‘turn dead’ at other times. Thus to
speculate scientifically it is absolutely
netessary to follow natural law.

“ATter years of patient study I have
proven to my entire satisfaction as
well as demonstrated to others that
vibration explains every possible phase
and condition of the market.”

in order to substantiate Mr. Gann’s
claims as to what he has been able to
do under this method, we called upon
Mr. William E. Gilley, an Inspector
of Imports, 16 Beaver street, New
York. Mr. Gilley is well-known in
the down-town district. He himself
has studied stock market movements
for twenty-five years, during which
time he has examined every piece
of market literature that has been
issued and procurable in Wall Street.
It was he who encouraged Mr. Gann
to study out the scientific and math-
ematical possibilities of the subject.
When asked what had been the most
impressive of Mr. Gann’s work and
predictions, he replied as follows:

“Tt is very dificult tor me to re-
member all the predictions and oper-
ations of Mr. Gann which may be
classed as phenomenal, but the follow-
ing are a few: In 1908 when Union
Pacific was 168% he told me that
it would not touch 169 before it had a
good break. We sold it short all the
way down to 15252, covering on the
weak spots and putting it out again

‘on the rallies, securing twenty-three

points profit out of an eighteen-point
move,

“He came to me when United States
Steel was selling around 50 and said
‘This Steel will run up to 58 but it
will not sell at 59. From theré it should
break 1634 points. We sold it short
around 5834 with a stop at 59. The
highest it went was 5834. From there
it declined to 41144—174 points.

“At another time wheat was selling
at about 89c. He predicted that the
May option would sell at $1.35. We
bought it and made large profits on
the way up. It actually touched
$1.35%A.

“When Union Pacific was 172, he
said it would go to 184% but not an
eighth higher until it had had a good
break. It went to 184% and came
back from there eight or nine times.
We sold it short repeatedly with a
stop at 185 and were never caught.
It eventually came back to 17214.

“Mr. Gann’s calculations are based
on natural law. I have followed his
work closely for years. I know that

he has a firm grasp of the basic
principles which govern stock market
movements, and | do not believe any
other man on earth can duplicate the
idea or his method at the present time.

“Early this year he figured that the
top of the advance would fall on a
certain day in August and calculated
the prices at which the Dow-Jones
averages would then stand. Lhe mar-
ket culminated on the exact day and
within four-tenths of one per cent. of
the figures predicted.”

“You and Mr. Gann must have
cleaned up considerable money on all
these operations,” was suggested.

“Ves, we have made a great deal
of money. He has taken half a million
dollars out ot the market in the past
few years. I once saw him take $130,
and in less than one month run it up
to cover $12,000. He can compound
money faster than any man I ever
met.”

“One of the most astonishing cal-
culations made by Mr. Gann was dur-
ing last summer (1909) when he pre-
dicted that September wheat would
sell at $1.20. This meant that it must
touch that figure before the end of
the month of September. At twelve
o’clock, Chicago time, on September
30th (the last day) the option was
selling below $1.08, and it looked as
though his prediction would not be
fulfilled. Mr. Gana said ‘If it does
not touch $1.20 by the close of the
market it will prove that there is some~
thing wrong with my whole method
of calculation. I do not care what the
price is now, it must go there.’ It
ig common history that September
wheat surprised the whole country
by selling at $1.20 and no higher in
the very last hour of the trading, clos-
ing at that figure.

So much for what Mr. Gann has
said and done as evidenced by himself
and others. Now as to what demon-
strations have taken place before our
representative:

During the month of October, 1909,
in twenty-five market days, Mr. Gann
made, in the presence oY our repre-
sentative, two hundred and eighty-six
transactions in various stocks, on both
the long and short side of the market.
Two hundred and sixty-four of these
transactions resulted in profits; twen-
ty-two in losses.

The capital with which he operated
was doubled ten times, so that at the
end of the month he had one thousand
per cent. of his original margin.

In our presence Mr. Gann sold Steel
common short at 94%, saying that it
would not go to 95. It did not.

On a drive which occurred during
the week ending October 29th, Mr.
Gann bought Steel common at 86%,
saying that it would not go to 86.
The lowest it sold was 86%.

We have seen him give in one day
sixteen successive orders in the same
stock, eight of which turned out to be
either the top or the bottom eighth of
that particular swing. The above we
can positively verify.

Such performances as these, coupled
with the foregoing, are probably un-
paralleled in the history of the Street.

James R. Keene has said, “The man
who is right six times out of ten will
make his tortune.” Here is a trader,
who, without any attempt to make a
showing (for he did not know the
results were to be published), establish-
es a record of over ninety-two per cent
profitable trades. .

Mr. Gann has refused to disclose
his method at any price, but fo those
scientihcally inclined he has unaues-
tionably added to the stock of Wall
Street knowledge and pointed. out
infinite possibilities.

We have requested Mr. Gann to
figure out for the readers of The Tick-
er a few of the most striking indica-
tions which appear in his calculations.
In presenting these we wish it under-
stood that no man, in or out of Wall
Street, is infallible.

Mr. Gann’s figures at present indi-
cate that the trend of the stock mar-
ket should, barring the usual rallies,
be toward lower prices until March
or April, 1910.

He calculates that May wheat, which
is now selling at $1.02, should not sell
below 99c. and should sell at $1.45 next
spring.

On cotton, which is now at about
the 15c. level, he estimates that, after
a good reaction from these prices, the
commodity should reach 18c. in the
spring of 1910. He looks for a eorner
in the March or May option.

Whether these figures prove correct
or not, will in no sense detract trom
the record which Mr. Gann has al-
ready established.

Mr. Gann was born in Lufkin, Tex-
as, and is thirty-one years of age. He
is a gifted mathematician, has an ex-
traordinary memory for figures, and
is an expert Tape Reader. Take away
his science and he would beat the

market on his intuitive tape reading
alone.

Endowed as he is with such qualities,
we have no hesitation in predicting
that within a comparatively few years
Wm. D. Gann will receive full recog-
nition as one of Wall Street’s leading

Note—Since the above forecast was
made, Cotton has suffered the expected
decline, the extreme break having
been 120 points. The lowest on May
wheat thus far has been $1.01%. It
is now selling at $1.06%4.

operators. R. D. W.

In 1912 Mr. Gann forecast the election of Woodrow Wilson and has been
correct in forecasting the election of every President since that time. Many
of these forecasts have been publishedin newspapers throughout the country.

In the spring of 1918 Mr, Gann forecast the end of the World War. This
forecast was sent out to newspapers throughout the country, and in January,
1919, the New York Herald and other papers gave Mr. Gann credit for fore-
casting the end of the war and the Kaiser’s abdication.

In his 1919 Annual Stock Forecast, issued late in 1918, he forecast a big
bull market for 1919 and especially referred to a boom in oil stocks.

His Stock Forecasts for 1920 and 1921 indicated a bear market with sharp
declines. The 1921 Forecast called the exact date for bottom on stocks in
August, 1921.

In 1923 Mr. Gann wrote “Truth of the Stock Tape” and forecast a big
advance in chemical and airplane stocks, which followed during the Coolidge
bull campaign. This book has been reviewed by newspapers and magazines
throughout the country and favorably commented on by college professors,
business men, investors and traders, all of whom agree that it is the best book
ever written on the subject.

His Stock Forecasts for 1924 and 1925 outlined the bull market which
followed.

In the spring of 1927, Mr. Gann wrote “The Tunnel Thru the Air, or
Looking back From 1940,” which contained many remarkable forecasts in regard
to stocks and commodities and world events which have been fulfilled. In this
book Mr. Gann said that from 1929 to 1932 there would be the worst panic
in the world’s history. Writing under date of “October 3, 1931” on page 3253,
he said, “The New York Stock Exchange closed to prevent complete panic
because the people were panic-strcken and selling stocks regardless of price.”
It is a matter of history that the New York Stock Exchange did consider closing
on October 3 to 5, but decided to stop short selling. The low of that panicky
decline was reached on October 5 and a rally of 33 points in industrial stock
averages Yollowed to November 9, 1931.

His 1929 Stock Forecast, issued on November 23, 1928, and based on his
Master Time Factor, indicated the end of the full market in August and early
September, 1929. He stated in no uncertain terms that the panic would start
in September, 1929, and that it would be a great deluge with a Black Friday.
We quote from the Forecast:

“AUGUST—A few of the late movers will advance this month and reach
final high. * * * Unfavorable news will develop which will start declines and
the long bull campaign will come to a sudden end. Money rates will be high
and final top will be reached for a big bear campaign. Stand from under! Don’t
get caught in the great deluge! Remember it is too late to sell when every-
one is trying to sell. * * *

“SEPTEMBER—One of the sharpest declines of the year is indicated. There
will be loss of confidence by investors, and the public will try to get out after
*t ig too late. Storms will damage crops and the general business outlook will
become cloudy. War news will upset the market and unfavorable developments
in foreign countries, A ‘Black Friday’ is indicated and a panicky decline in
stocks with only small rallies. The short side will prove the most profitable.
You should sell short and pyramid on the way down.”

In the spring of 1930, Mr. Gann wrote “Wall Street Stock Selector,” which
was published in June, 1930. In this book he had a chapter headed, “Investors’
Panic,” which described conditions just as they occurred during 1931, 1932 and
1933. We quote from the book, pages 203-04:

“The coming investcrs’ panic will be the greatest in history, because there
are at least 15 to 25 million investors in the United States who hold stocks in
the leading corporations, and when once they get scared, which they will alter
years of decline, then the selling will be so terriffic that no buying power can
withstand it. Stocks are so well distributed in the hands of the public that
since the 1929 panic many people think that the market is panic-proof, but this
seeming strength is really the weakest feature of the market. * * *

“Love of money has been the cause of all financial troubles and depressions
in the past, and the coming panic will be the greatest the world has ever known,
because there is more money in the United States than ever before,
therefore more to fight for.”

Thousands of people have bought this book and profited by reading and
studying it. The book has been favorably commented on by such papers as
The Financial Times of London, England, Wall Street Journal, New York
Daily Investment News, Coast Investor, and many other newspapers and
magazines throughout the world.

On February 10, 1932, Mr. Gann said that stocks were bottom for a big
rally. His 1932 Stock Forecast, issued October 21, 1931, called March 8 for last
top for another big decline. During the latter part of June, 1932, and early
July he strongly advised buying stocks, stating that final bottom had been
reached, as shown by his market letter issued July 8, the day that most stocks
reached final bottom. We quote from page 6 of the 1932 Forecast:

“The latter part of June, July. August and September are the most active
and bullish months of the vear, when sharp advances will be recorded. First
extreme high is indicated around Sentember 20 to 21, when stocks should make
extreme high for the year. Then follows a decline, reaching bottom around
October 4 to 5.”

Between July 8 and September 8 many stocks advanced 20 to 60 points.
The market reached high of a secondary rally on September 23, from which
a big decline followed, making low in the latter part of November and early
December, as indicated in the Forecast.

On March 1, 1933, by the use of his Master Time Factor Mr. Gann forecast
bottom for stocks and commodities and advised buying for a big advance, as
shown by the market letters issued March 1 and 3 given below. This is another
proof of the great value of Mr. Gann’s discovery of a Master Time Factor.

MARKET LETTERS AT A CRITICAL TIME

STOCK LETTER

Advice for Thursday and Friday’s
Markets

March 1, 1933,
The stock market received good
support on Tuesday despite unfavor-
able news of bank failures and bank
holidays. Today there were more bank
holidays and suspension of payment

of deposits, but the market gave a
wonderful demonstration of strength,
rallying several points and closing at
the top of the day.

The bad news is out and the mar-
ket has been discounting it since the
middle of January. It is the old, old
story: When news is out and every-
body knows it, it is too late to act
on it. It always pays to buy when

things look the worst and to sell when
they look the best. Very few people
would believe me if I told them now
how high stocks would sell a few
months later, just as they would not be-
lieve in the early part of last July that
stocks would go up 40 to 50 points
in as many days. Now is the time to
have faith jn America and to buy
stocks to hold for the long pull! We
are at the turning point and the stock
market always blazes the trail for bus-
iness to follow.

STOCK LETTER
Advice for Week Beginning
March 6, 1933
March 3, 1933.

The stock market gave an excel-
lent account of itself the past week,
standing up against the worst banking
news that we have had since 1907,
which indicates—as I have told you
for some time—that the big people
hold the stocks and are not going
to be frightened into selling them.
They know that the worst is over
and that better times are ahead. Pres-
ident Roosevelt will speedily inaugur-
ate a constructive program which will
restore confidence and start a buying
wave throughout the country. Most
stocks are selling far below their in-
trinsic value. This was demonstrated
today when shorts, who had pounded
the market all the week started to
cover, bringing about a sharp rally of
3 to 7 points.

The Dow-Jones 30 Industrial aver-
ages failed to break 49 and rallied
above 54. We are confident that they
have seen the final bottom and expect
these averages to advance above 70
before declining below 50. Crossing
56 will indicate 65 and crossing 66 will
indicate much higher. The railroad
averages kave held remarkably strong
throughout the decline, failing to break
23. We do not expect this level to be
reached. Crossing 26 will be the sig-
nal for higher prices and crossing 28
will indicate much higher.

The Public Utility averages indicate
final bottom and crossing 24 will indi-
cate much higher.

The Herald Tribune averages on
100 stocks failed to break 79. We
don’t expect this level to be reached.
Crossing 83 will indicate higher prices.

We strongly advise holding all long

stocks or buying some of the best
stocks on the list without waiting for
much reaction,

Expect some very bullish news next
Monday or Tuesday which will cause
increased activity and higher prices.
The extreme high for the week should
be reached on Friday aiternoon or
Saturday morning.

SPECIAL LETTER

The Spirit That Made America
Still Lives
March 4, 1933.

The banks in New York City, Chi-
cago and the greater part of the United
States will be closed Saturday, March
4 and Monday, March 6, and some of
them probably longer, but this need
not worry anyone. The action now
taken by financial leaders and the ac-
tion that will be taken by President
Roosevelt after he takes office at noon
today will mark the end of this de-
pression, in my opinion. This opinion
is based upon a scientific study of time
cycles, which indicate that a crisis
always marks the end of a depression
and then the turn comes quickly, just as
in September, 1929, stocks were sky-
rocketing and suddenly out of a clear
blue sky the crash developed. We are
now at the other extreme, all unfavor-
able factors discounted.

America is the greatest country in
the world and the spirit that made
it the greatest country in the world
still lives. The spirit of the Americans
that won the Revolution in 1776 and

‘made this the greatest independent

country in the world was the same
spirit and the same indomitable cour-
age that united this country after the
Civil War, when men went back to
their homes hungry and barefoot and
began to reconstruct and build the new
South. This country has _ passed
through many crises and has always
emerged stronger and better. This will
be no exception. America is going to
lead the world out of the depression,
and this seeming dark cloud has a
silver lining.

It is the duty of every one of us
to cooperate with President Roosevelt
and his Administration; have the same
faith, the same confidence that we
would if America was surrounded on
the east, on the north, on the west,
and on the south by Yoreign foes. Un-

der those conditions, we would leave
every cent of our money in the banks;
we would sacrifice everything we had
to save the country. That is what
we should do now—leave our inoney
in the banks. Those who have with-
drawn should put their money back
in the bank, because it is going to
be safe there. No one man or group
of men can do everything to restore
prosperity. We must all do our part
and President Roosevelt will steer the
Ship of State to safety.

I believe that before the Exchange
opens next Tuesday some very con-
structive measures will be taken and
that public confidence will be restored
and that stocks will go very much
higher. The shorts are trapped. The
bears will be taught the old saying
that he who sells what isn’t his’n must
buy one day or go to prison, and “A
good thing to remember, and a better
thing to do, is to work with the con-
structive forces and not with the
wrecking crew.” Money is not every-
thing. and the man who sacrifices his

country’s interest and is so unpatriotic
as to sell stocks short in a crisis and
try to wreck the country, is the man
who must pay for his selfishness.

Should the United States through
any government action, go off the gold.
standard, it will be bullish and start
a wave of prosperity throughout this
country, because foreign countries can
then buy our goods. Going off the
gold standard would nrodtce inflation
in commodities and wheat and cotton
would go sky-rocketing.

I believe that the news between now
and next Tuesday will be constructive
and bullish. I advise you to hold your
stocks or your commodities and not
try to withdraw your money from the
banks, for in doing so you will only
make bad matters worse for yourself
and others. In a few months you
will look back on March 4th as the
day when the tide turned and America
started back on the royal road to
prosperity!

W. D. GANN.

KEEPING UP TO DATE

Mr. Gann has always been progressive and believes in keeping up
to date. In April, 1933, he bought a specially equipped airplane for making

crop surveys.
mented on this progressive step.

Many ot the newspapers throughout the country com-
The following article appeared in the

New York Daily Investment News, May 26, 1933:

NEW YORK DAILY INVESTMENT NEWS

GANN TO TOUR COUNTRY BY PLANE
FOR BROAD BUSINESS SURVEY

Wayne, Mich, May 25—W. D.
Gann, stock market analyst, of 99 Wall
St., today left here for New York with
the first 1933 model Stinson Reliant
plane, piloted by Elinor Smith, woman
aviator.

Mr. Gann will use the plane for
an extensive tour of the country dur-
ing which he. will study cotton, wheat
and tobacco crop and business condi-
tions. He will leave on this tour
early in June.

The forecaster expects to make speed
in the gathering of first hand informa-

10

tion on business conditions by use of
the airplane,

The plane is equipped with blind-
flying apparatus, extra-large fuel tanks
to afford a flying range of 750 miles
and with radio receiving equipment.
The plane is powered with a Lycoming
engine and is capable of 135 miles per
hour.

By receiving radio advices on mar-
ket conditions, Mr. Gann calculates
that he will be able at all times to
gauge his operations in the markets
and send up-to-the-minute advise to

his clients, even though he is many
miles away from his Wall Street office.

As far as is known, Mr. Gann will
be the first Wall Street adviser to use
a plane as part of his equipment in
studying market conditions.

The recent burst of activity in the
markets, following the closing of the
banks and leading stock and commod-
ity exchanges, prompted the analyst
to buy the plane.

He decided that rapid-changing con-
ditions made it necessary for him to
gather his data on crops and business
at first hand.

Mr. Gann is a member of the Com-
modity Exchange, Inc., and also ot
the New Orleans Cotton Exchange.
During his tour of the country he will

visit the cotton belt in the south and
southwest, the tobacco fields in the
south, and the wheat stand in the
middle west.

At all times during the trip he will
communicate regularly with his office
by wire and by radio, He expects to
make talks in various cities tu Ki-
wanis and Rotary Clubs, chambers of
commerce and other business organi-
zations.

His itinerary will include the fol-
lowing cities:

Washington, D. C.; Richmond, Va.;
Raleigh, N. C.; Atlanta, Ga.; Birming-
ham, Ala.; Memphis, Tenn.; New Or-
leans, La.; Little Rock, Ark.; Houston
and Dallas, Texas; St. Louis, Detroit
and Chicago,

1933 STOCK FORECAST:

Mr. Gann’s 1933 Stock Forecast called for top July 17 and a sharp
decline to July 21. Stocks reached high on July 17 and a wide-open break
followed, with the average down 25 points in 4 days.

1934 STOCK FORECAST:

His 1934 Forecast indicated top for February 13th and the high was reached
on averages February 5th and 15th. The next low was indicated for May 11th
to 12th, and the market made low on May 14th. The next top was indicated Yor
June 22nd; stocks reached high on June 19th. The last low for 1934 was
forecast for July ZIst to 23rd and the extreme low or tne year was reached
on July 26th. The Forecast called for the last top for September 8th to 10th,
and stocks reached top of the rally on September 6th. A réacfion followed
to September 17th, the exact date indicated in the Forecast for low. The next
top was forecast for October 5th and 6th and the industrial averages reached
tov October 11th. The next bottom was called for October 23rd to 24th and
the lows were reached October 26th. The next top was indicated, according
to the Forecast, for December 4th to 5th. “The averages reached top on
December 6th and a reaction followed. The Forecast indicated high for the
end ot December and the averages reached high for the month on December 3lst,

A CROP SURVEY IN SOUTH AMERICA

In the early part of March, 1935, Mr. Gann made a trip to South America
to study crop conditions and get first hand information on the increase in pro-
duction of cotton in Peru, Chile, Argentine, and Brazil. On this trip he covered
about 18,000 miles by airplane and more than 1,000 miles by automobile, driving
into the country to see the conditions of soil and the possibilities for increased
production of Wheat, Corn and Cotton, which will influence prices in the
United States market by underselling, due to lower cost of labor in Argen-
and Brazil. While in South America, Mr. Gann was interviewed by many
newspapers.

11

We reproduce part of an article which appeared in the Beunos Aires Herald,

BUENOS AIRES HERALD

March 21,1935.

Thursday, March 21, 1935

SCIENCE AND STOCK

An Astonishing Claims

Records of 1,000 Years

THE man who guesses and gambles
on hope is sure to lose, while the
man who follows science makes pro-
fits. There is cause and effect for
everything and by time element and
the cycle theory everything can be
mathematically deterniined.

Mr. W. D. Gann, member of the
New Orleans Cotton Exchange and
the Rubber Exchange ot New York,
who stated that he has devoted over
30 years to study of time cycles and
spent $300,000 (U.S.) to develop a
dependable method based on mathe-
matical science that will determine
the trend of stocks’ and commodities.
The success attending his methods
he asserts, are borne out by his own

good fortune on the American mar-
kets, and his accuracy in forecasting
the futures markets for the past twen-
ty years has been very widely com-
mented upon in the Press in all parts
of the United States,

Mr. Gann told a HERALD repor-
ter yesterday that he has carried his
records of grain back over 1,000 years
and cotton records nearly 400 years.
The former he was able to gather the
most accurate information about from
old British records, while in his search
for cotton cycles he visited Egypt and
India. More recently he has used his
own aeroplane extensively in America
for getting round the country quickly
to make forecasts on the cotton crops.

i935 STOCK FORECAST:

His 1935 Forecast indicated first top for January 9th to 10th and the high
was reached on January 7th. The next top was forecast tor February 13th.
The actual highs were reached February 18th, from which a sharp decline
followed, making low for the year on March 18th. The Forecast called for
the last low on March 28th, and the averages made a second low on March
25th. From the low in March, the Forecast indicated a big advance of at least
32 points in the Dow-Jones Industrial averages.

August 28th and 29th indicated top for a reaction. The averages reached
top on August 27th and then reacted. The Forecast called for the next top
September 12th to 15th. High on the averages was reached September 11th,
The Forecast indicated the next bottom for September 24th to 25th; the last
low was made September 20th and 26th.

The Forecast called for top October 26th to 28th, and the averages reached
high on October 28th, which was the high of the year up to that time. ‘The
Forecast indicated November 15th to 16th as the last high of the year. The
actual high of the Dow-Jones 30 Industrial averages was reached on November
20th, from which a reaction of 10 points on averages Yollowed. The Forecast
called for low December 9-10th and 23rd. The low of the reaction was made
on December 16th and 19th, The Forecast called for a rally to December 3lst,
and this rally took place.

Mr. Gann has also been issuing Annual Forecasts on Cotton, Wheat and
other commodities for many years. These Forecasts have shown the same
percentage of accuracy that the Stock Forecasts have.

These Annual, Forecasts on Stocks, Cotton, and Grain are issued in Octo-
ber and November each year for the following year.

12

W. D. GANN MAKES PROFITS TRADING ACCORDING
TO HIS OWN METHODS

Many ask the question, “If Mr. Gann can forecast.the market accurately,
why does he sell service or write market letters?” He has answered that ques-
tion before, that he finds pleasure in giving his knowledge to help others who
need help; money is not everything in life,

Below we publish a record taken from brokers’ statements, showing the
trades made by. Mr. Gann during the past 3 years. This is proof that he can
and does make money by following his own rules and methods. Betore you
buy a Market Letter Service or a course of instructions, get the record a
actual trading by the man who is behind it, if he has not made money following
his own advice, why should you pay money for it and follow it and risk your
money?

W. D. GANN’S TRADING RECORD FOR 1933

From August 1 to December 31:
Total number of trades—135—of which 112 showed profits and 23 losses,
Percentage of accuracy on the total number of trades... 83%
Percentage of. profits to lOSS€S 0... ccc eee es ceeces testes ceetieeteneeneseeeees 89.9%
Total number of trades for the entire year of 1933: 479 trades, of which 422
were profits and 57 showed losses.
Percentage Of SCCUPACY cc ccc esis ertaseesiestessessscssecseseesestaneaneesnee 88.1%
Percentage of profits on capital used... 4000% or 40 for 1

TRADING RECORD FOR 1934

From January 1 to December 31: Total number of trades—362.

Cotton -—— 147 trades, of which 135 showed profits and 12 losses
Grain a 170 “a sé ae 161 sé 46 sé 9 66
Rubber _~ 23 “ sé a“ 21 ut $6 rz 2 46
Silver _ 7 is té itl 7 “ ie “ 0 “é
Silk —_ 4 isi rai sé 3 at éé iT ] its
Stocks — il iT $6 a 10 a $é sé | “a
Total for yr. 362 trades, of which 337 showed profits and 25 losses.
Percentage of accuracy on the total number of trades... —- 93.09%
Percentage of profits to 10SS€S....... cscs teseeeneetieeeseettteeeseens 93.10%
Percentage of profits on capital used... cscs 800% or 8 for 1.

TRADING RECORD FOR 1935
Commodities:

Total trades in Cotton, Grain and Rubber—98—of which 83 showed profits
and 15 showed losses.

Percentage of accuracy on total number of trades... eet 85%
Percentage of profits to lOSS€S.........ccsess eee es esses ees ienetnesneeteeneceneney 82%
Percentage of profits on capital USed... ccc eee eee 336%
Stocks:

Total number of trades—34--of which 29 showed profits and 5 losses.
Percentage of accuracy on total number of trades... 85.5%
Percentage of profits to lOSS€S..... ccc cee ee ett ee teee cette itt 83%
Percentage of profits on capital used oo... etnies 100%

Such a record of accuracy proves that W. D. Gann has discovered a Master
Time Factor and Cycle Theory that works and can be depended upon in future.

13

NEW STOCK TREND DETECTOR

In December 1935, Mr. Gann wrote a new book, NEW STOCK TREND
DETECTOR, bringing “Wall Street Stock Selector” up-to-date, with new
rules never before published and a method of trading that formerly sold for
$1000.00. This-book covers changed conditions caused by the new Securities
Exchange laws, It gives an example of trading in Chrysler Motors from 1925
to the end of 1935 and new rules on Volume of Sales. This book with the two
former books will give you a valuable stock market education.

A SET OF TEXT BOOKS

YRUTH OF THE STOCK TAPE, alone, price $3.00. We have a few single
copies on hand.

NEW STOCK TREND DETECTOR, alone, price $3.00. Contains 14 Charts,

TRUTH OF THE STOCK TAPE, WALL STREET STOCK SELECTOR

and NEW STOCK TREND DETECTOR, together price, $8.00. The
three books contain 55 valuable charts, proving the rules.

THE TUNNEL THRU THE AIR, free with order for the 3 books at $8.00,
or TUNNEL THRU THE AIR, alone, $1.00.
With these books and rules you can learn how to select the best stocks
to buy and detect the trend of new active leaders.

COURSES OF INSTRUCTION

Some readers of Mr. Gann’s books want to take up his advanced courses
after they have learned all they can from his books.

1936 MASTER FORECASTING METHOD: This course includes his
Master Time Factor and Cycle Theory, enabling one to make up annual fore-
casts one year or more in advance on the general market or on individual
stocks. It contains all his new discoveries made from 1933 to 1936. For the
first time this method is in shape so that it can be taught by correspondence.

NEW MECHANICAL METHOD AND TREND INDICATOR: This
Method is simple and based on fixed rules which can be learned in a very short
time thru correspondence and the time required to keep it up is only 15 to 30
minutes each day. With this Method your trading indications are determined
by fixed rules which tell you whether the trend is up or down; give you definite
ing points; tell you where to place a stop loss order to protect

buying and sell
This is the best method for a busy man.

your principal and profits.
If interested in these Courses, write for details.

14

pA es I

PERSONAL SERVICE

Personal Service consists of a general supervision of your account. First,
you advise us the amount of money you have to use for trading purposes; then
we tell you the amount of stocks and commodities you should trade in; give
you specific buying and selling instructions; advise you where to place stop
loss orders and when to pyramid. We send you telegrams as often as necessary
and write you personal letters.

This is not a market letter service. We never advise you to buy or sell
more than one to three stocks at the same time. You report when you buy
or sell anything. We keep a list of your holdings and watch them constantly
and advise you by wire or letter just what to do. This Service entitles you to
advice on Cotton, Grain or other commodities, if you wish to trade in them.

Price of this Service is $50 per month
$150 for three months
$275 for six months
$500 per year,

PART-OF-PROFITS PLAN: Instead of paying the full price of the
subscription, you may pay $25 per month for Personal Service and agree to
pay 5% of the net profits on the trades you make. With this proposition you
must trade in not less than 100 shares and report promptly when you make
trades according to our instructions.

When the markets are active, you should take this Service if the size of
your account warrants it.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES

SUPPLY AND DEMAND LETTER;

Tri-weekly Stock Letter $15.00 per month, three months $40.00, six months
$75.00, or $150.00 per year. Issued on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
Covers list of active and best stocks to trade in. a.

Weekly Stock Letter $6.00 per month, six months $33.00, or $60.00 per year.
Issued every Friday. Contains outlook for the following week and trad-
ing recommendations on active stocks. oS

Tri-weekly Commodity Letter $15.00 per month, three months $40.00, six months
$75.00, or $150.00 per year. Issued ori Monday, Wednesday and Friday.

| Gives advice on Cotton, Wheat, Corn, Oats, Rye, Lard, Coffee and Sugar,

Weekly Commodity Letter $6.00 per month, six months $33.00, or $60.00 per
year, Issued every Friday. Covers same commodities as the Tri-weekly
Letter and contains forecast for the following week.

Combination rates:

Tri-weekly Stock and Commodity Letters $25.00 per month.
Weekly Stock and Commodity Letters $10.00 per month.

TELEGRAPH SERVICE:

Daily Telegraph Service on Stocks $30.00 per month, which includes the Tri-
weekly Stock Letter. All messages sent collect in Private Code, which
is furnishd free.

Daily Telegraph Service on Cotton $30.00 per month, including the Tri-weekly
Commodity Letter.

Daily Telegraph Service on Grain $30.00 per month, including Letter.

Combined rate for telegrams on all commodities desired and stocks $45.00 per
month.

Telegrams on important changes only, on stocks or commodities, $7.50 per
month in addition to the price of the Tri-weekly or Weekly Letters.

Telegrams on important changes without Weekly or Tri-weekly Letter, $15.00
per month.

ANNUAL FORECASTS:

Annual Stock Forecast $100.00 per year.

Annual Cotton Forecast $100.00 per year.

Annual Grain Forecast $100.00 per year.

Annual Rubber Forecast, $100.00 per year.

Annual Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Forecast $100.00 per year.

Supplements to all Forecasts are issued and mailed on the first of each
month,
Prices of Annual Forecasts reduced on the first of each month.
Special Forecasst on Stocks or other Commodities made up on request.

All subscriptions payable in advance.

Mr. Gann is a member of the New Orleans Cotton Exchange and The Rub-
ber Exchange of New York; member of the Royal Economic Society of London,
and American Economic Society. He is a Christian and a member of the

Masonic fraternity. . -

When you do business with W. D, Gann Scientific Service, Inc., you are
dealing with an old-established reliable concern, with a record for accuracy
that is excelled by none. Your interest is our interest. It has been well said:
“He who serves best, prospers most.’ Our aim is to give you good service
based on scientific knowledge and years of experience. Give our Service a
trial and be convinced that we can help you to make profits.

W. D. GANN SCIENTIFIC SERVICE, INC.
88 Wall Street New York, N. Y.

16

