ANNUAL FORECASTS

In the following pages I am reproducing my Annual
Forecasts issued since 1918. They appear exactly as when
they were sent out one year in advance.

1919 A BULL YEAR FOR STOCKS

History repeats itself in the stack market as well as in the lives of men.
My study of the measurement of time cycles indicates that 1919 falls in the
cycle of advancing prices. This year will go down in history as one of a
boom in oil stocks, Railroad issues will also have great advances. Steel
stocks will be benofited by large increase in foreign business from March
until August.

While the general aspects are for a more peaceful period, there is danger
that the United States will have disputes with foreign powers during April,
August and September, which will cause erratic fluctuations of stocks during
these months. However, it is my judgment that all differences will be
amicably adjusted and this country will not become involved in war. The
Mexican problem will come up for settlement during this year and will
cause some anxiety,

The year opens under a wave of slightly bullish influence which cul-
minates between January.4th to zoth. Around the 20th to 2sth a very depress-
ing influence is indicated for stocks, when some marked declines may be
expected. There will be talk of reduction in dividends and cut in prices of
steel and copper, However, a Bull campaign always begins in gloom and
ends in glory.

An accumulation of stocks will take place between January 2oth and °
February 14th. Stocks bought during this period will show handsome profits
on the advance in April and May. .

The rise will start about the end of February and 2 strong upward
tendency will be manifest during March when much optimistic talk will
be in evidence.

The Bull wave continues, subject to minor reactions, until about May
zoth, after which time a sharp reaction may be expected.

JUNE: During the first half of June the markets in London will be
very strong and the buying from the other side will make its influence felt
in our markets. From June z2nd to July roth a depressing influence is shown
and there is likely to be some marked depreciation in stocks.

JULY: After the roth of July the Bull campaign will be resumed. ‘There
will be a boom in railroad stocks; also a large increase in foreign business.

AUGUST: Many stocks will reach the top of the boom between the
x2th to xsth and have a quick decline to around August 23rd.
SEPTEMBER: A depressing influence is indicated from September 2nd
to 8th. After that the Bull market will be resumed and stocks will advance
until around September 23rd. If they are very strong around this time, it
will be advisable to sell out all long stocks, .

OCTOBER: During this month we will witness some marked decline in
marine stocks. ‘he general market should be strong up to the 6th or 7th
and the bottom of the decline should be reached about October 2ath,

NOVEMBER: This will be a very mixed month and a decline may be
expected from the roth to the 2oth.

DECEMBER: The indications are that stocks will be weak and decline

during the early part of the month and close at the end of the year very
strong.

December x6th, 1978.

W. D. Gann,
8x New St, N.Y.

Note how the 1919 Forecast foretold the big boom in

Oil stocks and called the exact date for the starting of the

‘Bull campaign. It stated that the rise would begin the end

of February.—Bottom on stocks was made February to and

the big advance started February 14.—It also foretold the

big decline November 10 to 20.—At this time many stocks
declined 30 to 50 points in three weeks.
1920 FORECAST OF THE STOCK MARKET

My mathematical calculations, based upon a Cycle Theory which I dis-
covered, indicate two Bull and two Bear campaigns for this ycar. In looking
ahead the important points to watch are:

A minor top of the first Bull wave about March 9. April will show
much greater advances than March and the Spring Bull campaign: will
culminate around 22-24.

Distribution will take place during the carly part of May. Railroad
stocks are likely to reach high prices around May 12-17. The last half of
May shows a downward tendency. The panicky decline continues during
June, stocks reaching bottom around xo-16. The market will then be slow
while accumulation is going on. .

The second Bull campaign should start between July 1§ and 20. Stocks
should be very strong and rapid advances take place in August. Rails
should have good advances; steels and coppers also show great activity.
Many new issues will be floated during April and August. All stocks should
be sold out in August as we will then see top of the great Bull cycle.

The last four months of 920 all indicate declines and sales are advisable
on rallies. A sharp, if not panicky decline will occur in September, Last
half of November and first part of December will produce panicky conditions
and great liquidation will be under way. .

JANUARY: Great progress will be made on the Peace Treaty and there
are strong indications that it will be ratified. ‘This will cause rapid advances
in stocks. ils, steels, equipments, and rails all indicate higher prices.
Markets should be top around 5-6; decline 13-14; rally to 20-22; decline
25-26; and close the month quite strong.

FEBRUARY: Quite bearish period. There will be war rumors, danger
of trouble with Mexico, and probability of complications on account of
financial depression in foreign countries. 2-3 slight rally; severe decline
around 8-z0, where bottom should be-made and stocks bought; rally to around
14; decline to 20; and rally to 27.

MARCH: Some. trouble is likely to develop in-connection with the rail-
roads being turned back to private ownership, which will cause declines.
Disturbing conditions on account of war in Europe threatened. ‘Trop should
be made around 9-10; decline 10-14; sight rally 15-16; decline 18-21, where
bottom should be made for ‘quite a rally to. around 2s; slight reaction around
27; then advance to 31. During last ten days of the month an improved
condition in the rails,

APRIL: Indications very bullish and there will be some sensational
advances. Grave danger of war with Mexico is threatened. However,
it is not likely to disturb the Bull market to any great extent. The advances
should start about the 3rd and continue with increasing volume and activity
to around 24-25, where top of campaign should be reached and sharp decline
start, running to end of the month.

MAY: England will face some grave financial troubles, but their affairs
will probably be settled in a satisfactory way. Our trade and commerce
will increase. Be careful about buying stocks as distribution will be taking
place and you might not have a chance to sell before the big decline sets in.
May 3rd should be top, dectine to 6th; rally to 12th, when a slight decline
should start. Rails are likely to be high between 12-17, Danger of marked
decline in stocks 17-26; then rally to end of the month. a

JUNE: This month falls in a cycle of very depressing influences. Serious
danger of war, labor unrest, and strikes threatened. Something in connection
with foreign countries will cause anxiety and help depress securities. The
railroad situation will be far from satisfactory and their shares will decline.
2nd to 3rd slight rally. Sell out all long stocks and go short as balance

of month is very bearish. A rapid decline should occur 7-16, where bottom
“ should be made for a rally. Change in trend denoted around 23rd; 25-30
strong rally.

JULY: Stocks will be affected by strikes and labor troubles. Crop news
will be bad and political uncertainties.cloud the generad outlook, However,
accumulation will take place and a Bull wave Start. xst to 3rd slight advance;
decline 7-9; rally to 16; sudden decline 20-22; balance of month tendency
very strong. Something liable to happen to benefit rails and electrical stocks,
Between July 20 and 28 trouble threatened to the United States on account
of war, possibly with Mexico or Japan. If it comes, it might cause a sudden
decline in stocks, followed by a sharp rally.

AUGUST: We will witness very wild and exciting fluctuations, but
remember this is the last great boom in stocks. Conditions in France and
Belgium will improve and enormous orders from foreign countries will make
the situation here look rosy. The public will buy stocks. regardless of price...
August x~5 slight decline; then big advance starts. ro-rz, a sudden unex-
pected event may bring about a quick decline in some rails and steels, but
they will rally sharply from any depression, Some stocks will be top around
14-15; but rails, steels, and equipments will continue the excited advance to
around 23-25, when final top is indicated. Distribution will then start. Sell
out and go short. 2-30: danger of break in oil and paper stocks. |

SEPTEMBER: Financial conditions in London and Paris will be very
unsettled and help to depress our markets, Strikes and labor troubles will
be in evidence everywhere. The political outlook will be very disturbing.
The worst decline of the year is signified. Do not be fooled into buying
stocks as we are on the eve of a long depression. Rails may have slight
advances but should be sold on all rallies,.-1st to 3xd-markets will:-be made
to appear quite strong; s-z2 rapid decline; followed by slight recovery to
18th; x9-22 very depressing influence—stocks will decline rapidly, followed
by slight rally to 27, :

OCTOBER: Bad crop news, disturbing labor conditions, political uncer-
tainties, and war or complications with foreign governments will cause
declines. The cycle is very malefic frora 7th to gxst and sales on rallies
will prove more profitable than purchases, xst to sth, sharp decline; rally
to rath, decline to 18; slight rally to 2x; then severe decline between 2x
and 27.

NOVEMBER: While excited buying period will follow first few days
after election, stocks should be sold on rallies. sth to 8th strong tendency;
slight rally 16-17—sell; panicky decline 20-23; followed by slight rise to
27; month closes under very depressing conditions. If stocks start to break
after rxth, expect bad decline.

DECEMBER: ‘Culmination of very matefic bearish cycle. Declines will
be rapid and drastic. Frightened investors and speculators will liquidate
regardless of price. General business outlook will become very gloomy and
uncertain, The depressing eycle which began around November 18 will
extend to December 19, when stocks should reach at least tempokary bottom.
1st to roth a severe decline; followed by a slight rally to the x2th; bad
news about 14-15 will start another drastic decline extending to the roth;
very unsettled period 20-22; slight rally to the 25th; decline 26-28; final
days of the year show advancing tendency.
December 10, rgx9.

W. D. Gann.

This is an exact copy of my forecast sént out December
roth, 1919. .

Note how accurately the 1920 market was forecasted
and how the panicky decline of November and December
was exactly foretold—Low prices were made on December
22, 1920, in a panicky decline with a three-million share day.
—The Forecast called for temporary bottom around this
time.
FORECAST OF THE STOCK MARKET FOR 1gzI

This year the markets will not have as wide fluctuations as we have
witnessed during the past two years. Stocks will Auctuate in a narrow
Tange, becoming dull and inactive after advances and. holding for some time
around the tops before starting a decline, also remaining dull and inactive
around the bottoms after culmination. of declines. .

Railroad stocks will have much better advances and in many cases wider
tange-of fluctuations than Industrials. The trend on Railroad stocks is much
more bullish than on Industrials. On account of the time factor in this cycle
at times indicating advances in Railroad stocks while Industrials are
declining, it has been necessary for me to give you a separate forecast for
the high and low days on Rails during the different months,

My forecast on general business conditions, enclosed, should be carefully
tead and taken into consideration with the calculations hereinafter given,

IMPORTANT POINTS OF THE YEAR

The low point for the general market will be reached between the. sth
and roth of February, although some stocks will make low around the r2th
to 14th. .

The Spring Bull ‘campaign will start in February and will culminate
between April 28th and May 3rd. You should certainly sell out long stocks
on this advance, as the month of May indicates serious declines. :

‘The markets will not be very active during June and July, haying small
advances and becoming dull and remaining in a narrow range.

August is a beatish month and quite a decline will take place, In fact,
one bottom should be made in August. Then should follow an advance to
the early days of September; decline to September. 2sth: then advance into
the early part of October, with the low point around the rsth and xéth,

The general trend after the October break should be up until the end
of the year, many stocks making highest prices during the month of December.
In fact, quite a boom will take place near the cad of the year,

DATES TO WATCH FOR CHANGE‘IN TREND

The following dates will show when there should be important changes
in the trend of the market, If low prices are made on the date indicated,
you may expect high prices at the next date, but if there is a reversal and
prices are high on a low date, then expect them to be low on the next high
date. To illustrate: January oth indicates high—If prices are low instead
of high, then expect January 17th to be high, and so on,
However, the dates given will not always mark extreme high and low
prices, but some kind of a rally or dectine may be expected around these dates,

January g‘high; 17 low; 23-24 high; 29-30 low, .

February 7-8 high; 14-16 low; 23 high.

March 2 low; zo high; 16-17 low; 23-24 high; 30-31 low.

April 8-9 high; 14-15 low; 21-22 high; 29-30 low.

May 6-8 high; 13-14 low; 2x-22 high; 30-31 low.

June 5-6 high; 12-13 low; 19-20 high; 27-28 low.

July 4-5 high; 12-12 low; 19-20 high; 27-28 low.

August 3-4 high; 8-10 low; 17-18 high; 25-26 low.

September 2-3 high; 9-10 low; x6-17 high; 25-26 low,

October 1-2 high; 8-9 low; 16-17 high; 23-24 low; 30-32 high,

November 7-8 low; 14-15 high; 21-23 low; 28-29 high.

December 6-7 low; 14-15 high; 21-22 low; 29-30 high.

JANUARY: The general outlook is unfavorable. There will be poor
earnings on railroads and strikes are threatened.

The month starts with an advancing market, high prices being made
around ‘the ard and 4th, where you should sell out and go short. Quite a
severe decline around the oth and roth;-rally around x3th and rath; decline
xgth and 2oth; rally 2zst and 22nd; decline 24th’and 2sth; then advance to
end of the month.

FEBRUARY: This month indicates a very depressing influence for general
business conditions, Reduction in steel prices, cuts in dividends, decline in
Steel and Railroad stocks, The low prices for the year on U. S. Steel will
be made this month.

February rst to 3rd a slight advance; 4th to roth a rapid decline, where
bottom shquld be made, although Steel and Railroad ‘stocks likely to make
bottom around-zath or r4th. Rally on xsth and x6th; decline roth and zoth;
advance to end of the month. :

Quite a sharp advance will take place in many stocks during the closing
days. It will be the starting of the Spring Bull campaign. ‘This is the time
to buy stocks to hold for the April boom.

MARCH: Industrial stocks will have slow, steady advances, but in a
narrow range. There will be depression in business. Bad - weather’ will
delay starting.of crops.- Unsettled- financial -conditions in foreign ‘countries
will cause depression here.

March gth to roth advance; decline x4th to rsth; rapid advance 22nd
to 23rd; decline to 26th. Month closes strong with Railroads leading the
advance,

APRIL: A much better outlook forSboth Rails and Industrials. There
will be war or war talk, but the markets will advance even on unfavorable
news.

Advance to April. ath; decline 8th and 9th; rally xéth to zoth; decline
21st to 23rd; strong advance to the goth, where many stocks will make tops.
Part of the Industrial stocks will reach high on April r6th; decline to the
xgth; then advance to the end of the month. .

Do not fail to sell out long stocks on this strong market.

MAY: This month falls in a very depressing cycle, threatening strikes,
labor troubles, disputes with England, Mexico and Japan, if not actual
warfare. The people will become very much dissatisfied and there is danger
of revolutionary outbreaks, The markets are likely to become somewhat
panicky. << .
May rst to 3rd high; severe decline gth to roth; rally to the xgth; decline

rath; rally to r&8th-r9th; severe decline 2zst to 2sth; followed by a rally to
the end of the month. .

JUNE: Bad crop’ news, general unrest and labor troubles will be in
evidence. The markets will be slow and dull, moving in a narrow range. -

Rails will be more active than Industrials. The high point of Industrials
should be reached around June 17th and the low point around the zsth. .
Rails—advance to the 4th; decline around 9th and roth; advance 16th-x7th;

decline xgth-zoth; advance 2grd-2gth; decline 2éth-27th; then advance to
the end of the month.

JULY: Railroad earnings will improve, but disturbing financial conditions
in New York City will cause some declines. .

July xst to sth—high; decline, making low for month around rgth-réth;
tally to x8th-rgth; decline to 23rd; advance to end of the month.

AUGUST: This month falls in a very depressing bearish cycle. There
will be danger of strikes and unrest. Reduction in the price of steel and
oil, Some rapid declines in Steel and Oil stocks near the end of the month.

Decline August rst to 8th; advance rath to rgth; decline 18th and xgth;
rally 22nd to 23rd; decline 24th to 26th; followed by an advance to the end
of the month.

SEPTEMBER: We will have trouble with Japan. Fires and rioting’ in
New York City will cause a decline in Industrials, Railroad earnings will
show improvement, and an advance in Railroad stocks will start, :

The month starts in strong—High sth to 6th; severe decline 7th to roth;
Railroad stocks probably not making low until x3th-rqth. Then advance
2xst to 22nd; decline 26th-27th. Some unexpected bad news will cause
railroads to break 28th to 30th.

OCTOBER: Declines in commodities and cost of living. greatly reduced.
Somewhat improved financial outlook in the early part‘of the month will
help stocks, but a bad break occurs late in the month.

October rst to 3rd—~a slight advance; decline sth to 7th; rally roth to
txth; decline r4th to xsth; advance xrgth to 21st, some Rails advancing ‘to
the 2sth-z6th. But many stocks will have a bad break’ between the 2qgth
and 29th. The 27th or 28th will Probably be the Jow day.

- From this low price an advance will start which will continue to. the end
of the year, Buy stocks at this time to hold for the December boom —

NOVEMBER: This month’ starts a more hopeful outlook. New and
beneficial laws will be passed. Good news of some kind will stimulate the
markets and cause great activity. Railroad stocks will lead the advance,

November rst to xath—strong. advancing’ market; z4th to xsth sharp
decline; rally y6th to 18th; decline t9th to 2zst; followed by a strong advance
to the end of the month. Some Railroad stocks will probably make high
around the 22nd to z2grd. U. S. Steel will be high around 27th-28th for a
reaction. Great activity’ and rapid advances during closing days of the
month,

DECEMBER: While there will be trouble with foreign countries and
war or war rumors, yet stocks will be very active and show rapid advances.
In many ways the influences show the strongest markets of the year. Steel
and Oil stacks will have rapid advances. Commodities will also advance,
December rst to grd—slight decline; rally sth to 6th; decline 7th to 8th;
advance 9th to roth; slight decline rath to 13th; advance to the 2oth-2rst;
slight reaction: 2and-23rd; rapid advance to the end of the month, You can
expect some sensational advances around the r7th to 2rst and from the 2sth
to 3xst. The year closes under a very strong bullish wave.

December x4th, -1920.
W. D. Gann.

The above is an exact copy of my forecast sent out
December 14, 1920.

Note under ‘Important points of the Year” the end of
the Spring Bull market was forecasted for April 28 to May
3-—The exact high point on the Dow-Jones’ Averages was
made on May 3, from which followed a severe decline, as
predicted.

Also note that bottom was predicted for the month of
August, and that a decline in Steels and Oils was foretold
for that month_—Mexican Pete sold at 84%4 and Crucible
at 49, the extreme low prices, on August 25, rg2r. ;

The Forecast called for an advance from August and
the highest prices of the year to be made in December, all
of which was remarkably fulfilled,
tos

100

95

8s

15

70

95

th

70

Foreéast of the Stock Market for 1922

CHART No, 1 20 INDUSTRIAL STOCKS

TAN FEB MAR | APR |}. MAY | TUN | JUL SEP | acT | Nov | DEc

AUG
Ala Yan

N N pay L ~~

i
a
nw al
=
*
Pal
<
Lao
Ms,

La VAT VV

CHART No, 2

JAN | FEB | MAR | APR | May JUN | JuL | AuG | sep | ocr NOV | DEC

/ /.
A / f a,

ALAR KN AS\ |,

1 | WARN IME
ALOIS \ / N\A

KY N _\

woo . \

[ras

W. D. GAHN'@ FORECART 1922
Oow-Jonce Ayenaace

This year indicates a Bull market in stocks, especially the first six to
eight months. The latter part of the year is more bearish and some severe
declines will take place. The year 1922 promises greater prosperity for this
country, improved business conditions, and a much better outlook than was
experienced in the latter part of 1920 and in ro2x. We will have some
unfavorable periods at times and our Government will be confronted with
some serious problems, There is danger of war as treachery is shown on
the part of some foreign power who is supposed to be our friend, But the
major influences favor success and general prosperity.

20 RAILROAD Stocks

MAIN TREND AND IMPORTANT SWINGS

INDUSTRIAL STOCKS: Chart No. 1, which is based on the 20 Indus-
trial Stocks published by the Wall Street Journal, shows the important tops
and bottoms as they should occur during the year. Note that around January
2nd to grd is the high point, followed by a decliné to around the igth, then
a rally to January .26th-28th; followed by a decline to February xoth, making
a second bottom around February 2grd. It is possible that this bottom may
not be quite as low as the bottom made in the carly part of the month,

Accumulation for the Spring Bull campaign will take place during the
latter part of January and February. Then will follow a big advance, which
you will note from Chart No. x culminates around April ioth, where first
top is made. The second top occurs around April 18th to 26th. Distribution
will take place around these levels and stocks will hold for some time before
starting the big break, It requires time at both bottoms and tops to accumulate
and distribute stocks,

After the April tops the first low point on the down trend occurs May 32st
to June sth. Rally June roth to rzth; followed by a decline to around
June r9th to 23rd, where low point should be made and stocks accumulated
for the next advance.

The first top of the Summer Bull campaign occurs around July 26th and
the second top August 4th to roth. These tops should be higher than the
high prices made in April. Distribution will again take place and stocks
will have a sharp decline, making bottom around September xrth to rgth,
where they will again be accumulated for the third and last rise of the
year, which culminates around October &th to xsth and x8th to 24th. This
top should be about as high as the July and August tops. Stocks may be
held for some time to facilitate distribution, as this should mark the last
top before a long Bear campaign. From this time the big trend continues
down until December xith to rsth, where bottom will be made and a rally
follow to the end of December.

The range between the low point at the early part of the year and the
final highs in August and October should be from 9 to 12 points on averages,
which means that some of the active high-priced Industrial Stocks will Auc-
luate 20 to 30 points between highs and lows during the year.

RAILROAD STOCKS: The Rails have been gradually secking lower
levels every year since the boom in 1909, The Jowest prices since 1897 were
made in June, r92x. Since that time Rails have shown steady accumulation.
They are way behind the Industrials and the curve shows a strong possibility
of quite a Bull campaign in 1922 with many of the Rails making considerably
higher prices. 5

Note the main swings of Chart No, 2 indicate high prices around January
and to 4th; low prices around January 23rd to 24th; a second bottom around
February sth and a third slightly higher bottom around February 2oth to
23rd, from which the Spring Bull campaign starts,

First top April roth to 12th; second top April 26th to May 2nd, followed

by a decline, making bottom June r8th to 2qth, from which the second section
of the Buil campaign starts, making first top July 26th and second top
August 4th,

Then a sharp decline, making bottom around September sth, followed
by'a rally, making top October 3rd to sth. It is possible, if the Rails are

leading and are very strong, that the October top may be nearly as high
as the August top.
After October the big trend is down. Stocks will be a sale on every
rally. The first bottom November roth to z4th; fallowed by a quick rally
November 2zst to 24th; then a severe decline, making bottom around
December roth to r5th, followed by a rally to the end of the year,

The range on the Dow-Jones’ averages of 20 Rails, which is shown on
Chart No. 2, should be from x0 to x12 points. There is a possibility of them
making an even greater range. This would indicate some stocks making a
range of 10 to 35 points between the high and low of the year.

JANUARY; The general business outlook is much more hopeful, although
there will be some depressing news, which will cause sharp, sudden declines,
the Rails probably breaking more than Industrials, Great activity in Steels,
Rails, Electric, and Motor stocks indicated,

InpusrataL Srocks indicate extreme high point of the month around
January 2nd-3rd; extreme low point xq4th-19th. Minor: Swings—4th-sth
reaction; 7th-8th rally; 9th-roth decline; x2th-x3th rally; x8th-x9th first low
of reaction; 24th-2sth rally; 3xst second low of reaction.

Raitroap Stocks indicate extreme high January 2nd-sth; extreme low
23rd to 2sth. Minor Swings—gth-roth reaction; xath-r3th rally; r3th-r4th
reaction; 16th-r7th top of rally; 18th-r9th low; 2oth-2zst rally to near top
made early part of month; 23rd-2sth‘low point; 26th-28th rally.

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend: The swings in the Stock market
are based upon a Time factor and my calculations are based upon the com-
medity curve, money curve and curve of stocks. Sometimes one of these
curves will cause a change of trend and the dates ‘given below cach month
show when there is a possibility of stocks varying from my prédicted curve.
The dates marked X are the most important points to watch. As a rule
the market will have some kind of a rally or a decline around these dates,
These changes in time apply to both rails and industrials, January 6th-7th
low; x3th-r4th high X; i9th-2oth low; 26th-z7th high X.

. FEBRUARY: Slow accumulation will take place in stocks, Foreign
affairs will cause some concern. There will be some ‘war talk which will
be unsettling for a short period. Railroad earnings will improve. Oils and
shipping shares will be active and have quite a strong rally around the
12th-x3th, .

INDUSTRIAL Stocks indicate extreme low point around the sth, oth and
toth; extreme high of the month 26th-27th. Minor Swings—4th-sth low;
7th-8th high; gth-roth low; 13th-z4th high; x8th-21st last low before Spring
rise starts; rally to 26th-27th, . :

RAILROAD Srocks indicate extreme highxoth-x 5th; extreme -low sth and
zoth to 23rd. Minor Swings—roth-rzth high; rath-x3th low; zsth-r6éth high;-
23rd-26th nearly as low as the sth; rally to end of month,—Spring rise starts,

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend: February qth-sth low; r2th-rgth
high X; x8th-r9th low; 26th-27th high X.

MARCH: Some unfavorable weather will delay crops in parts of the
country. Foreign affairs will improve and become more peaceful, General
business affairs will show steady improvement. Creat activity in Rails, Steels,
and Motor Stocks; some quick declines followed by quick rallies.

INDUSTRIAL Stocks indicate extreme low around rst and xith-rath; extreme
high point goth-3rst. Minor Swings—2nd-gth high; sth-6th reaction; 26th-
27th high; 29th-3o0th low.
RatLRoaD Stocks indicate extreme Jow around rst and zoth-rrth; extreme
high 2yth-28th. Minor Swings—qth-6th high; and if stocks have had a
good advance, they may get 2 sharp reaction; roth-r1th low; 23rd-24th high;
2gth-z6th low; 27cth-28th high; 29th low,

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend—éth-7th low; xath-r3th high X;

rgth-21st low,—important change in trend due,—should be up; 2gth-28th
high X.

APRIL: This month indicates Breat activity and improved business con-
ditions; plenty of work and the unemployed satisfied. Some war talk and
disputes with a foreign country, probably Japan. The stock market will
be active and the public will come in and buy stocks. All kinds of good
news will be brought out to create a big buying wave. Distribution will
start around the 9th to roth, and if the second top occurs with a strong
market around April 18th to 26th, you should sell out all long stocks and
put out short lines for the next decline.

InpusrrtaL Stocks indicate extreme high around April roth and 28th to
2qgth; extreme low x3th-z4th. Minor Swings—rzst high; grd-4th react; xoth,
first top of Spring tise; xgth-r4th react; xsth-r6th rally; xr8th-xgth low;
asth-26th last top of Spring rise.

RaiLroaD Stocks indicate extreme low April xst-2nd; extreme high gth-
roth and 26th. Minor Swings—oth-roth high; rrth-r2th low; xsth second
top; r9th-2and low; 26th-2oth Jast top of rally.

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend—April 4th-sth low; xxth-x2th high
X; r8th-r9th low; 2éth-a7th high X.

MAY: General business good. More peaceful state of affairs. Railroads
will show increased earnings. Crops will make good progress. Much: good
news will be brought out, but remember the stock market has discounted it.
Expect some sharp declines in stocks around the qth, roth and 24th,

INDUSTRIAL Stocks indicate extreme high May rst-2nd; extreme low x8th-
t9th. Minor Swings—sth-éth low; rath-x3th high; r8th-r9th low; 2oth-arst
high; 2and-23rd low; 26th-27th high, .

RaiLroap Stocks indicate extreme high May rst-2nd; extreme low xgth-
zoth. Minor Swings—May sth-6th low; xqth-xsth high; x9th-zxs¢ low; 2sth-
26th high; 3st low, . .

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend: May 4rd-4th low; x1th-z2th high
X; r8th-xgth low; 26th-27th high X.

JUNE: Some reports of dull business in parts of the country and good
business in others. There is danger of a sharp decline in Railroad stocks,
Bad crop news will cause an advance in Cotton and Grain. Stocks will
become dull and narrow at bottom of declines as accumulation will be taking
place. Some great progress on peaceful relations with foreign countries will
be made and something will happen to boom copper stocks, Money will
be easy and the Summer advance in stocks will start.

InpusrriaL STocks indicate extreme high June xoth-x1th; extreme low
sth-7th and rqth-r9th. Minor Swings—June 3rd-qth low; gth-zoth high;
rgth-23rd low; 29th high,

Raitroap Stocxs indicate extreme high June 2sth-26th; extreme low sth-
7th and 17th-x9th, Minor Swings—June qth-sth lows. 7th-8th high; x4th-
r9th low; asth-26th high: 29th-goth low.

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend—June 4rd-qth low; gth-roth high
X; rzth-xgth low; 2gth-2sth high X; 29th low.
JULY: Bad weather in the Eastern states will retard progress of crops
and cause an advance in the price of Cotton. Some trouble on adcount of
forcign affairs. Threatened strikes in connection with railroads and shipping.
The stock market will be quite active and advance, There is danger of a
sharp reaction around the roth to rath, but it will be followed by a quick
rally. Great activity in oils and shipping stocks. Railroads will show
increased earnings and their shares should lead the Summer Bull campaign.
Copper stacks will also advance. Something will happen to. cause great
speculative activity. There will be some war talk,

InpusTRIAL STocks indicate extreme high July 26th-28th; extreme low
roth-rzth, Minor Swings—end-grd_ high; sth-6th reaction; gth-roth high;
tath-r3th low before big rise starts; 24th-26th high; 29th-3xst low.

Raltroap Stocks indicate extreme low July 3rd-sth;' extreme high 26th,
Minor Swings—July and-grd high; xrrth-rath low; 26th top; goth-3rst low,

Dates to Watch for Change in ‘Trend—July xst-3rd low; gth-zoth high X;
r6th-r9th low; 2gth-26th high X; goth-3rst low.

AUGUST: Business improves; good crop news. Railroad stocks very
active and advancing. Steels, Oils, Shipping and Agricultural stocks will
also rise. Sugars and late movers will advance, but remember that distribu-
tion will take place and that stocks should be sold on rallies and -shorts put
out for the September break. If the top of the rally comes around the éth-7th, —
there may be a sharp reaction around 9th-zoth, followed by a quick rally
xr4th-rsth. Stocks may hold and make top around the roth,

InpusreiaL Stocks indicate extreme high x4th-r9th; extreme low tst-grd
and 2grd-zsth. Minor Swings—grd-qth low; rqth-rsth top; 18th-r9th low;
zist-22nd high; 24th-2sth low; 27th-28th high,

RAILROAD Stocks indicate extreme high August x4th and xgth; extreme
low 2g9th-goth, Minor Swings—yth high; 9th-roth low; r4th-rsth high;
24th-2sth low; 27th high.

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend—Avgust 7th high X} r2th-13th low;
2rst-22nd high X; 29th-zoth low.

SEPTEMBER: Good business, but stocks will have discounted most of
it. Coppers, Sugars, and late movers will be brought forward to facilitate
distribution in other stocks. War talk, complicated foreign affairs, or danger
of strikes connected with railroads or shipping will cause a severe decline
in stocks. A bad break eccurs between the roth and -xéth. Oils, Rails, and
active leaders will decline rapidly. :

InbusTRIAL Stocks indicate extreme high éth-9th; extreme low. urth-rsth,
Minor Swings—rst-3rd low; sth-6th high; rith-rsth low; x7th-18th rally;
roth-zoth react; 2xst-22nd high; 24th-2sth low ss 6th-27th high; 29th-zoth low.

RAILROAD STOCKS indicate extreme high 6th-7th; extreme low x3th-rsth,
Minor Swings—éth-9th high, some stocks holding up and probably niaking
high around the 9th,—be careful about buying as a big break is coming;
rrth-r3th low; x18th-2xst last rally before another big break; 27th-z9th low.

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend—sth-6th high X; rgth-rgth low;

2ist-23rd high X:—from this change in trend ‘stocks will sell very much
lower before December; 27th-28 low.

OCTOBER: Good reports of railroad earnings will continue and stocks
will be advanced to help distribution. General business quite good. Some
complications with foreign countries, Labor will be satisfied and peaceful,
Danger of some’ trouble with Mexico. Watch stocks around the sth-6th, as
this may be the last high before a big decline. October r8th-2rst some stocks
will make top in a very active market; 23rd-27th sharp decline,-with rails
breaking badly.”

InpustRaL Stocks indicate extreme high grd-sth and xsth-r8th; extreme
low 2sth-27th. Minor Swings—3rd-sth high; r2th-13th low; x8th-zoth ‘last
rally before big break; 27th-28 sharp decline.

Rattroap Stocks indicate extreme high grd-sth; extreme low xgth-x4th
and 26th-27th. Minor Swings—3rd-sth last high before big decline; x3th-
zq4th low; xgth-18th rally; 26th-27th sharp decline.

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend—October sth-éth high X; 13th-z4th
low; 2oth-21st high X; 26th-27th low.

NOVEMBER: Some very disturbing and depressing -conditions; falling
off in business; danger of strikes and trouble with forcign countrics. Oils
and Steels will have some spurts of activity and advances, but they should
be sold on every rally. November 4th-sth will be high, from which a big
decline will take place; roth-rqth panicky break; xgth-26th another severe
decline, with bad breaks in oils and active leaders,

InpbustRtaL Srocks indicate extreme high sth-6th; extreme lows r2th-z4th
and 2sth-26th, Minor Swings—sth-6th high; r2th-13th low; 2oth-2rst high;
zsth-26th low.

RalLroap Stocks indicate extreme high gth-sth; extreme lows x3th-x4th
and aqth-2sth, Minor Swings—sth-6th high; r3th-zqth: low; x9th-2oth rally;
26th-27th low.

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend—November 4th-sth high KX; x2th-
13th low; rg9th-zoth high X; 26th-27th low.

DECEMBER: Very unsettled conditions prevail, War talk, if not actual
war, Danger of strikes. Bad business conditions will cause panicky declines
in stocks. The public who bought stocks at the top of the boom will now
be forced to sell regardless of price, causing a big decline and many stocks
making lowest prices of the year. Industrial stocks will break before the
Rails. The Railroads and some Oils may hold up and rally to around
December xoth-rrth, but a severe decline takes place around the roth to reth,
where bottom will be reached; 23rd-26th indicates a sharp decline in Rails,
Motors, and Electric stocks, followed by a strong rally to the end of the
month,

InpusrriaL Stocks indicate extreme low zoth-rsth; extreme high 3rst.
Minor Swings—rst-3rd- high; roth-13th low; xsth-réth rally; x7th-r8th low;
rally to Deeember 31st. ,

RAILROAD Stocks indicate extreme low xoth-rsth; extreme highs 2zst and
goth-grst. Minor Swings-—rst-3rd high; xoth-r4th low; rgth-2rst high; 2gth-
26th low; 31st high of rally. , . _ 0

Dates to Watch for Change in Trend—December 3rd-sth high X; xath-
x3th low; 28th-z9th high X; 2sth-26th low.

November joth, rg2z.
W. D. Gann.
‘This is an exact copy of my Forecast on Stocks for 1922
as sent out on November 3oth, 1921.
A chart or projected curve was sent out with the 1922
Stock Forecast, as reproduced here. The heavy line shows
my forecasted trend and the dotted line the Dow-Jones'
Averages. «You can see how accurately it worked out.

The Forecast called for three tops on Industrial stocks.
It indicated a first top for April, a second top for August,
a third and final top for the Bull market between October 8
and 15.—The extreme high prices were made on October
14, from which followed a big decline as forecasted.—Under
the month of November the Forecast read: “yoth-r4th
panicky break,” which was fulfilled with remarkable accuracy.

The Railroad stocks indicated final top for the year on
August 14.—The high was made on August 21 and the same
level reached’on September rz and October 16, from which
a big decline took place, as outlined in the Forecast.

In September, 1922, I issued a supplement telling sub-
scribers that bottom would be made September 30, instead
of September 15. Again, the latter part of November, I
issued another supplement advising that stocks were bottom
and that they would advance in December, and not decline
in the early part of the month. With these two corrections,
the Forecast was go per cent correct. The important and
valuable feature about the Forecast was the way it called
exact date—October 14—for final high, the Averages reach-
ing the exact point forecasted. No other man that I know
of has ever made such accurate long-range forecasts.
FORECAST OF THE COTTON MARKET FOR 1922

Jul 27-
Aug 3

Nor Dec
220 20-26 23

200
180
160
140
120 Way 1 Hay
100
80
60
40

20

20

20 Oct
18-24

The indications this year are for a range of prices considerably above
the average of normal years. An advance takes. place in-the Spring; then
a reaction of about 60 to 100 points until the early part of June, when the
market becomes very active and advances, making high of the year on July
28th to August 2nd. . :

News of crop damage during July will cause a big advance. ‘There is
a probability of a drought in Texas and too much rain in the southern and
eastern belts. The reports of damage will be very much exaggerated, as
usual, and will foree prices to a level which can not be maintained,

Better crop news and increased estimates of a larger yield will be in
evidence the latter part of August, causing a severe decline. The low of the
Fall swing occurs around October 28th to 2gth. After this date damage by
frost and increased demand for spot cotton will cause another rapid rise
which will culminate November roth to rsth. Then follows a reaction to
around December 3rd to sth; then a rally to December 22nd to 24th,

The enclosed chart shows the major swings of the market. Note from
the low of April sth the advance runs up to April 26th to May ists then
a reaction to around May sth to 6th, followed by a rally which will carry
prices to the level of May ist and probably higher by May roth to z2th.

After this date the fluctuations are narrow until June 3rd to 7th, when
the Government crop report will start an advance. The real Bull move
will not start until near the end of June, when bad crop news begins to
come in. The advance which culminates the latter part of July and early
part of August will be very rapid, and the decline which follows will also
be very rapid. - .

After the break starts, rallies of 30 to 40 points are about all that is
indicated until the bottom is made around August 3oth to 31st. Prices should
then be down to the level of the early part of April and possibly lower,

Then follows a sharp rally of about 100 points, making top around
September roth to rgth. After this date the long swing is down to October
18th to asth, when prices should be 50 to 60 points below the level of the
early part of April. The November rally, which culminates around the
roth to xsth, should carry prices to within $0 or 60 points of the high prices
made at the top in July and August. :

MAY: During this month cold, rainy weather will delay the progress
of the growing crop, but the demand for spot cotton will be light and the
market will not show great activity until the latter part of the month,

May 26th to 3oth—Some bad news should cause increased “activity and
a quick rally,

JUNE: Reports of dry weather in the Western and extreme southern belt,
and too much rain in the eastern belt, will start an advance in the Octeber
option. June rrth to rsth and 26th to goth——Around these dates great activity
is indicated, and if an advance starts, it will continue for some time.

JULY: Reports of crop, damage will be more numerous this month than
any other time. A wild buying wave by the public and increased demand
for spots will cause wide fluctuations and a big advance. July 26th—Around
this date an exciting market and wild fluctuations are indicated, It may
mark the first top of the Bull ‘swing. .

AUGUST: The early part of the month is bullish, but the big decline
will take place in the latter part, August xgth—A very important date to
watch for a change in trend. If a rally starts at this time, it may be quite
sharp, although it will not hold.

SEPTEMBER: The early part of the month is bullish, There will be
bad crop news and a great demand for spots, but if there is ‘a sharp advance
around the roth to rath, you can expect a decline the balance of the month.
September 26th to goth—A very active market when prices should decline.

OCTOBER: sth to 6th—Very important; watch for change in trend.
There may be some rally at this time, but it is not likely to hold. x6th to
22nd—Indicates a sharp decline, and if the break is’ quite severe, it is likely
to mark last bottom before big advance starts, 27th to 3oth—Very active;
some important news will come out to affect prices. There is possibility of a
sharp decline, but it will not last, and prices will recover rapidly,

NOVEMBER: Reports of a shorter crop than expected will cause an
advance, <A better foreign demand for spots will also help the rise in prices,
November sth to 6th and 17th to 2oth—Afe very. important dates that will
mark changes in trend and indicate great activity.

DECEMBER: A decline takes place in the early part of the month,
Bottom should be made on 3rd to sth, but there is a possibility of a break
around the roth to rgth, The Government estimate on the total crop will
be larger than expected, but it probably will have been discounted... The
spot demand will be good, and a sharp advance will take place the Jatter
part of the month. .

IMPORTANT DATES TO WATCH FOR CHANGE IN TREND

The following dates are very important and you should watch them for
changes in the major or minor trend: April 26th to 27th; May 26th; June
and to 4th and 24th to 26th; July 3rd, 9th to roth, and 2gth to 2sth; August
2znd to 23rd;September qth to 7th: 2rst and zand; October sth and 6th;
zoth to azst; November 3rd to 4th; r9th to 2and; December rath; 18th to roth.

BEST OPTIONS TO TRADE IN

During the Spring and Summer the October and July options should
follow closely the trend outlined on the chart. After September, the December
and January options should follow the Forecast the best. During November
and December, if the March option is active, it will probably be the best
one to trade in,

April 25th, r922.

W. D. Gann,

This is an exact reproduction of the Cotton Forecast
sent out April 25, 1922.

Note that the Forecast called for low prices April 3-5.—
The last reaction and low price was made on April 2, after
which the trend continued up, subject to reactions, until
August 1. .

You will see that the top for the summer bull campaign
was predicted for July 27 to August 3—The exact high
price was made on August 1, from which a big decline fol-
lowed, as forecasted.

A correction was made in the October Supplement, which
advised that the trend had turned up and that prices would
not come down to the level indicated for October 18-24. .-:

The Supplement for November called for the top and
change in trend for about November 8.—The exact high
price was made on November 9, when the trend turned down.

Cotton made exact low price on December 6 and rallied
to December 23, as predicted in the Forecast.
FORECAST ON GRAM FOR 1922.

Projected Curve and Trend which Wheat should follor:=

May
Fob 7-10 June
3a 20 Moh 10-15
10-12 .

Sep Oct

6 July Avg 1214 6-6

20 25-27 15-17
Deo
12-15

This forecast is made up principally for Wheat, although Corn should
follow it very closely, making tops and bottoms about the same dates as
Wheat does, but, of course, working in a narrower range.

The chart attached gives you the Major and Minor moves as they will
occur during the year. The point on the Chart marked “O” is the-price at
the end of December, or the high price of December 27th. The figures above
and below “O” represent cents per bushel, as you will see, .

Note that the decline from December 27th high to January 3rd low was
about ro cents per bushel, as indicated on the chart. Note that the low price
after February zoth rally occurs on April 3rd to 6th, when prices should be
down about 12 cents-per bushel from the high price aroynd February 2oth.

From the April bottom follows the Strongest advance of the year, when
prices should ran up about 16 cents per bushel, where top should be made
around May 7th to roth. t

Highest prices of the year are indicatéd for the month of May; then the
big swing down, making low around July 2sth to 27th, which should be
about 20 cents per bushel down from the high price reached in May. Notice
that a small rally takes place up to around August 3rd to sth; then follows
a decline, making a. second bottom about as low as the bottom made on
July 2sth. Second bottom should be made around August xsth to x7th.

After that time the trend should be up until October réth to x9th, and
the rise from July and August bottoms should be about 8 or 9 cents per bushel
on Wheat. .

Then follows a long down trend to December rath to rsth, when prices

should reach the lowest of the year. In my judgment they will be below
go cents per bushel.
The decline from October 16th to December tsth should be about 12 to
13 Cents per hushel. .

The extreme range on Wheat, between the high of the year and the low
of the year, should be between 30 and 35 cents per bushel. However, you
must not depend too much on the number of cents per bushel up ‘or down
in the major or minor swings. The main thing to watch is the dates for
tops or bottoms, and if the market comes out pretty close to these, you should
buy or sell regardless of the price. ,

The May option of Wheat should follow the predicted trend closest up
until about May xoth. After that time use the July option until the early

part of July. For the balance of the year the September and December
options.

IMPORTANT SWINGS OF THE YEAR

January 3rd low; January x6th next low point before big up swing starts,

February 2oth top of rally; followed by a reaction’ to around February
2and to zsth. :

Then a rally to March xoth-zath, which should carry prices to near top
made in February.

Long swing down, making low around April 3rd to 6th, when prices
should be much lower than in January. -

REMEMBER Tus Point: If May Wheat sells at 1.08 after January 25th,
it will indicate much lower prices ‘and probably a decline to around 95
to 92 cents per bushel, .

¥rom April 6th a sharp rally up to May gth to zoth,

Then the long swing down, making bottom July zsth to 27th,

From the July bottom the trend will work up to around October 1éth
to rgth, :

Then follows a long swing down to December rzth to rsth, November
being a very bearish month.

DATES TO WATCH FOR CHANGE IN TREND

The most important dates to watch for major changes in trend are:
March 2oth to z4th; June 2rst to 23rd; September 2oth to 24th.

The following dates will mark moves of minor importance. You can
watch them for reversals. If prices should be low on a date that I have
indicated as high, then the next is likely to come out low instead of high.
Minor fluctuations and some kind of a small rally or decline will occur
around these dates: .

January 3rd low; oth high; réth low; 28$h top of rally for small reaction.

February sth low of minor reaction; 2oth-21st top of major swing; 24th-
2sth low; 27th top of small rally,

March 7th low of reaction; 1ath-13th top of rally; rgth-2oth low of
reaction; 27th-28th top of rally.

April 4th-sth low of major move; r1th-rath high for reaction; xr8th-r9th
low of reaction; 27th high for small reaction.

May 3rd-4th small reaction; roth-rrth high of major move; r8th-roth low
of reaction; 27th high of rally.

June 2nd-3rd reaction; gth-roth high; x7th low; 2qth-zsth high,

July 2nd-3rd low; gth-gth high of rally; réth-r7th low; 2oth-2rst small
rally; 24th-25th low; 27th-28th small rally; goth-3rxst low.
August zth-8th small rally; rsth-x6th low; 2and-23rd high; 28th-29th
low for rally, , - .

September sch-éth high; r3th-rgth low; 2oth-2ust high; 27th-28th low of
reaction,

October sth-6th rally; 13th-14th minor reaction; 18th-r9th top of major
swing; 26th-27th low for rally,

November sth-éth top of rally; xzth-z2th low; r8th-roth rally; 2sth-26th
low of reaction.

December 3rd-4th top of rally; rzth-rsth low of major swing; r7th-x8th
rally; 2sth-26th low; goth-31st high of rally, .

A supplement will be mailed you each month, giving any-changes that
are indicated, if the market is not following closely the trend as outlined,

January 31st, 1922,
W. D. Gann.

The above is an exact copy of my Forecast on Grain for
1922 sent out on January 31st, 1922.

The Forecast called for extreme low to be made January
3-—-May Wheat made the low—ro8 Y%e—on January 3.
Minor reactions occurred on January 10 and 16 as fore.
casted. ,

Then followed a big advance, May Wheat reaching
147% on February 21. The extreme high of the year—
149 7g—was made on F ebruary 27.—The Forecast was only
seven days off from the exact high point.

The Forecast called for 42 points’ advance from January
3 to February 20, and the actual advance was 42 points
from January 3 to F ebruary 27. :

The decline occurred during June and July as forecasted,
and the low price—ro414—was made on September 14.—
The Forecast indicated September 12-14 for bottom.

A top was indicated for October 16-19, and the high
prices occurred on October 18, frm which a.4-cent reaction
took place. Se

A Supplement was issued at the end of. October advising
that if May Wheat rallied to 116, the trend would reverse
and no further big decline could be expected.—The trend
did reverse and the market advanced up to the end of
December.
These Forecasts are proof conclusive of the great value
of long-rarige predictions, which tell you when extreme high
or low prices on stocks, cotton or grain will be reached and
enable you to buy or sell before the important moves start.

The big money in the markets is made on the long swings
and not by day to day trading. The major moves of the
stock and commodity markets recur as regular as the sap
rises in the trees in the springtime and the leaves fall in the
autumn.

Over twenty years’ study and investigation places me in
a position to make Forecasts which are dependable and en-
able you to make profits,
