                            [dust jacket]




    TRUTH
      OF
THE STOCK TAPE
A STUDY OF THE STOCK AND COMMODITY MARKETS

   WITH CHARTS AND RULES FOR SUCCESSFUL

                   TRADING AND INVESTING

                                  By

                        William D. Gann
                          ____________

      A practical book written by a successful Wall Street man who has
   proved his theory in actual trading. He writes from twenty years'
   experience and gives examples of his rules by the Case System.

        This is the only book published covering the investment and
   speculative field of Cotton and Grain as well as Stocks. It is fully
   illustrated with 22 charts showing plainly the successful method of
   trading.

   In four books under one cover:

        Book I         Preparation for Trading.
        Book II        How to Trade.
        Book III      How to Determine the Position of Stocks.
        Book IV       Commodities, including Cotton, Wheat and Corn.
    TRUTH
      OF
THE STOCK TAPE
A STUDY OF THE STOCK AND COMMODITY MARKETS
    WITH CHARTS AND RULES FOR SUCCESSFUL
            TRADING AND INVESTING

                       BY

          WILLIAM D. GANN

                IN FOUR BOOKS
                    EMBRACING
          The Preparation and Knowledge
          Required; Methods of Operating
           And Determining Position of
             Stocks and Commodities


   FINANCIAL GUARDIAN PUBLISHING CO.
   91 WALL STREET         NEW YORK.




     This E-Book is not to be sold.
          It is a free educational service
                in the public interest
                    published by

          Gann Study Group
                DEDICATED
                      TO

    MY SUBSCRIBERS WHO HAVE ENCOURAGED ME

                  AND TO THE

  THOUGHTFUL STUDENTS OF FINANCIAL ECONOMICS

WHO DESIRE TO FOLLOW PRACTICAL RULES FOR TRADING

  INSTEAD OF GUESSWORK AND GAMBLING METHODS
                           PREFACE
  “Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather
than choice gold. For wisdom is better than rubies, and all the
things that may be desired are not to be compared to it.”-- PROV.
8: 10-11.

                             _______

  In addressing you on the subject of investing your surplus
funds, I might state that there is no other subject which I
could select that so closely concerns your welfare and regard-
ing which you might receive valuable assistance from my in-
structions.

  In the United States a stupendous sum, reaching into
millions of dollars, is wasted annually in foolish speculations
and unwise investments. This senseless waste can be traced
to one and only one source, namely, lack of knowledge. Men
and women who would not attempt to treat the slightest
ailment, or even adjust so common a thing as a kitchen faucet,
but would hand each difficulty over to its respective specialist,
the doctor or the plumber, will on the spur of the moment
and without the slightest preparation, undertake the invest-
ment of thousands of dollars in enterprises about which they
understand absolutely nothing. Is it any wonder then that
they lose?

  I offer you suggestions and advice in the science of spec-
ulation and investment in the same spirit as the physician. He
would not think of guaranteeing you perpetual life or insur-
ing you against the common ills to which the flesh is heir.
But in your difficulties he brings to your aid the accumulated
experience of his profession, and a skill and knowledge which
required years to accumulate and is ready for your instant
use. I do not offer you a beautiful theory which will not
work in practice, but give you invaluable advice, which if
followed, will insure success in practical everyday Wall Street
speculations and other fields of investment.


                                  v
vi


  It has been well said that a writer who writes first for
remuneration and secondly because he believes what he
writes, will never achieve enduring fame, and that the sales-
man who does not believe in his goods will never make a
success. I believe in the theory and rules that I have laid
down in this book for you to follow, because I have tested
and proved them.

  It is my object in this work to facilitate and focalize the
essential principles for practical use. My knowledge comes
from over twenty years' experience, in which I have traversed
the rough and rugged road that the inexperienced trader's
foot must press before he reaches the goal. Hence my object
in writing this book is to give to the public something new
and practical, not theory alone which would fail in practice.

 Read this book carefully several times; study each chart
and subject thoroughly, and a new light and knowledge will
come to you every time you read it.

  If I succeed in teaching only a few to leave wild gambling
alone and follow the path of conservative speculation and
investment, my work will not have been in vain and I will
have been amply repaid for my efforts.

                                             W.D. GANN.
NEW YORK CITY,
     January 27, 1923.
            CONTENTS

              BOOK I

  PREPARATION FOR TRADING

CHAPTER                                     PAGE
  I. WHAT IS TAPE READING?                   2

 II. CAN MONEY BE MADE IN WALL STREET? OR
        CAN THE STOCK MARKET BE BEATEN?      3
 III. HOW TO READ THE STOCK TAPE             5
 IV. HOW THE TAPE FOOLS YOU                  8
 V.   HOW STOCKS ARE SOLD                    16
 VI. YOUR WEAK POINTS                       20
VII. ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS               22



             BOOK II

          HOW TO TRADE

VIII. RULES FOR SUCCESSFUL TRADING          28
 IX. METHODS OF OPERATING                   40
  X. CHARTS AND THEIR USE                    51
 XI. THE SEVEN ZONES OF ACTIVITY            55
XII. HABITS OF STOCKS                       59
XIII. DIFFERENT CLASSES OF STOCKS           68
XIV. HOW TO READ THE TAPE CORRECTLY         76
 XV. WHEN THE TAPE FINISHES AND GIVES FINAL
      SIGNALS                               83


                vii
  viii


                  BOOK III

HOW TO DETERMINE THE POSITION OF
            STOCKS

   XVI.   POSITION OF GROUPS OF STOCKS         88
   XVII. GENERAL TREND OF THE MARKET           90
   XVIII. HOW TO TELL THE STOCKS IN STRONGEST
              POSITION                         93
   XIX.   HOW TO TELL WHEN STOCKS ARE IN WEAK
             POSITION                          99
    XX. JUDGING FINAL TOPS AND BOTTOMS        103
   XXI. NUMBER OF TIMES A STOCK FLUCTUATES
            OVER THE SAME RANGE               114
  XXII.     CROSSING OLD LEVELS                 117
  XXIII. TOPS AND BOTTOMS ON RAILROAD STOCKS    127
  XXIV. BOTTOMS AND TOPS ON INDUSTRIAL STOCKS 135
  XXV. ACCUMULATION OF LOW-PRICED STOCKS        143
  XXVI. HOW TO WATCH INVESTMENTS                146



                  BOOK IV

               COMMODITIES
  XXVII.    HOW TO TRADE IN COTTON               152
  XXVIII.   PROPER WAY TO READ THE COTTON TAPE  158
   XXIX.    HOW TO DETERMINE A CHANGE IN TREND   165
   XXX.     THE BOLL WEEVIL                      168
   XXXI.    WHEAT AND CORN TRADING              170
  XXXII.    JUDGING ACCUMULATION AND DISTRIBUTION
                    ZONES                        173
            SELECTING A BROKER                  185
                                                           ix

                     CHARTS

1.     Dow-Jones’ Averages: Yearly High and Low            66
         20 Industrial Stocks: 1896-1922.
         20 Railroad Stocks: 1885-1922.
2.     Studebaker Weekly High and Low                      77
         September 4, 1920, to January 6, 1923.
3.     U. S. Rubber Monthly High and Low: 1914-1922. 84
4.     Continental Can Monthly High and Low: 1914-
         1923                                              91
5.     New York Central Swing Chart: 1896-1922             96
6.     U. S. Industrial Alcohol Monthly High and Low:
         1914-1922                                        100
7.     U. S. Steel -- 3-point Moves: October 2, 1916, to
         December, 1917                                   105
8.     American Smelting and Refining Monthly High and
          Low: 1901-1908                                  107
9.     Corn Products Monthly High and Low: 1906-1922
                                                      110-111
10.    Republic Steel Monthly High and Low: 1913-1922.
                                                         118
11.    Dow-Jones’ Averages -- Monthly High and Low --
          20 Railroad Stocks: 1896-1922              128-131
12.    Dow-Jones’ Averages -- Monthly High and Low --
          20 Industrial Stocks: 1897-1922            136-139
13.    October Cotton Weekly High and Low: November,
          1919, to January, 1923                     160-161
14.    May Wheat Monthly High and Low: 1895-1922
                                                     174-176
15.    May Wheat Swing Chart: 1895-1922                   178

16a.   May Wheat Weekly High and Low: April 16,
         1921, to January 6, 1923                        182

16b.   May Daily Wheat High and Low: December 13
         to 29, 1922                                     182
Perhaps one of the wisest things Emerson ever said:

          "Many times the reading of a book
           has made the fortune of a man --
              has decided his way in life.

     "To use books rightly is to go to them for help;
 to appeal to them when our knowledge and power fail;
      to be led by them into wider sight and clear
                 conception of our own."
      TRUTH OF THE STOCK TAPE
                               _______

                               BOOK I

            PREPARATION FOR TRADING

  “No man can learn what he has not preparation for learning,
however near to his eyes is the object. A chemist may tell his most
precious secrets to a carpenter, and he shall be never the wiser -- the
secrets he would not utter to a chemist for an estate.” -- EMERSON.

                               _______

  In 1917 when the United States was forced to enter the
war against Germany we heard on every hand “we are un-
prepared for war.” Wilson’s period of “watchful waiting”
instead of preparing for the inevitable had at last brought
us face to face with war without being ready.

  Lawyers, doctors, engineers and professional men who
make a success spend anywhere from two to five years’ time
studying and preparing to practice their profession before
they begin making any money.

  Men enter into speculation in Wall Street without any
preparation. They have made no study of it whatsoever.
They try to deal in something they know nothing about. Is
it any wonder then that they lose?

  Speculators and investors who simply guess, follow tips,
rumors, newspaper talk and so-called “inside information"
have no chance of ever making a success. Unless they follow
some well-defined plan based on Science and Supply and
Demand, they are sure to lose.

  Over twenty years of study and experience places me in
a position to give you a definite, practical set of rules and
instructions which will lead to success if you follow them.

  No great success or gain can be expected unless a man
is willing to study and learn by past experience. You cannot
get something good for nothing and must pay with time,
money, or knowledge for success.

                                    1
                             CHAPTER I

                  WHAT IS TAPE READING?

  Tape reading is a study of fluctuations of stocks as they
appear on the stock tape and the ability to judge the ones
that are in a strong or weak position and determine the
psychological moment to buy or sell. We must also be able
to determine the stocks that are inactive and show no definite
trend.

  Tape reading is psychological because the mind acts and
is influenced by everything it sees, hears, smells, tastes or
feels. In reading the tape, we are not influenced alone by
what we see, but by what we feel or sense, which cannot
always be explained or a satisfactory reason given because
it is “intuition.”

  What is intuition? You often hear traders say “I am
buying or selling this stock on my intuition. The best defini-
tion I can give of intuition is that it is instantaneous reasoning.
It is that something which tells us when we are right or
wrong before we have time to reason it out. The way to
benefit through intuition is to act immediately, and not stop
to reason or ask why. That is what a good tape reader does.

  The tape registers the dominating force currents from
business all over the country. It contains the condensed
opinion of the majority and weighs the hopes and fears of
manipulators, the public, and business men. That is why it
is a reliable guide and business barometer, if you know how
to read it correctly. And here is where the “rub” comes.
The tape tells the truth, if you can interpret it correctly.

  Tape reading requires a strong will power and a mind
that, when it once sees the trend of the market, cannot be
changed until the tape shows the change and is not influenced
by news, false rumors, tips, or hearsay. Being able to read
the tape correctly and act on your judgment is an entirely
different proposition, which I will explain later on.

                                    2
                           CHAPTER II

       CAN MONEY BE MADE IN WALL STREET?

                                 OR

         CAN THE STOCK MARKET BE BEATEN?

  You have often heard the expression “99 out of every
100 who go into Wall Street lose.” Then one man out of
every hundred must win. Therefore, my answer is that Wall
Street can be beaten and that you can make money by specu-
lating and investing along conservative lines and by trading
in a few selected stocks.

  But how are you going to do it? You must have knowl-
edge and science. Know! Know !! Know!!! more than
the other fellow or the common trader. Find out how suc-
cessful men in Wall Street have made their fortunes; then
go and do likewise. Remember that “Knowledge is Power.”

  Statistics show that 98 per cent of business men fail
sooner or later. Then why do men go into business? Be-
cause 2 per cent of them make fortunes out of general busi-
ness and keep them.

  Just ask yourself the question, “Who gets all the money
that is lost in Wall Street?” It does not evaporate; for
every dollar lost some one makes a dollar. Then the way
to make it is to trade the same way the fellow does who
gets what you lose. Remember that every time you buy some
one sells and every time you sell some one buys.

  The majority of people who buy stocks lose money in the
end. Why? Because they guess, follow newspaper dope,
fake tips or inside information. They do not make safe
investments; they gamble on 10 or 15 points’ margin. They
nearly always buy near the top, and, of course, nothing can
keep them from losing.

                                  3
4


  The general public do not sell stocks short; therefore
they are always wrong in a Bear market. When a man loses
money buying stocks and refuses to sell short, he can always
look back and say “if I had only sold when I bought, look
how much profit I would have made.” Then, why doesn’t
he learn to sell short? (In another chapter I will show you
the proof that it is safe and practical to sell short.)

  At the present time, there are over 700 stocks listed on
the New York Stock Exchange, and if you group them under
their proper headings, there will be over 20 different groups.
If you study the action of all the stocks in one group and
watch them on the tape, you will find it is too much for you,
and that you cannot make money trading in all of the stocks
in any one group, much less by trying to trade in several
groups.

  Tape reading requires patience, and the essence and value
of it is concentration. There is no such thing as a man being
born with a mind that can concentrate on 10 things at one
time, much less 700. Then success depends upon selecting
a few stocks and concentrating upon them.
                           CHAPTER III

             HOW TO READ THE STOCK TAPE

  The general opinion prevails with the public, especially
among traders outside New York City, that the proper way
to read the tape is to stand at the ticker and watch every
quotation as it comes out. Nothing is more erroneous.

  Expert tape readers are very few and far between. It
is a study of a lifetime. While the tape shows the trend of
the market, there are so many minor changes and quick
reversals that the average man can not tell whether the big
trend has turned or whether it is only a minor change that
will last a few hours, a few days, or a few weeks before the
main trend is resumed again.

  If a trader goes into a broker’s office to watch the tape,
he will find anywhere from two or three to a dozen traders
standing around the ticker, all talking from time to time and
expressing their opinions or what they hear on different
stocks. He must also listen to the gossip that comes over
the news ticker, floating rumors from the street, and informa-
tion about buyers and sellers that comes from the floor. With
all of these disturbances, there is not one man in a million
that can concentrate enough to tell anything about what
stocks are going to do.

  Besides, if he is able to pick a winner, and starts to buy
or sell, he will be influenced by what someone says who is
standing around the ticker and the result is that he will not
act at the right time. Then it is impossible to beat the
market by tape reading in a broker’s office.

  No matter how strong a man's will power may be, he is
influenced, consciously or unconsciously, by what he hears or
sees, and his actions or executions are interfered with accord-
ingly. This is the reason why a few big traders, like Liver-
more, have a private office with a ticker, where they can be

                                   5
6


away from all outside influences and watch the tape, form
their impressions, and act on them without being influenced
by things they do not want to hear. But only traders who
have a very large amount of money and can devote all of
their time to the market and tape reading can afford to have
an office and a ticker where they can study the tape alone
without interference. The average man cannot afford this.

  Then it is necessary to know how to read the tape without
seeing it, or without watching it all the time. Market move-
ments of importance, i.e., the long swings, require weeks and
sometimes months to get ready, or for accumulation and
distribution to be completed. There is always plenty of time
to buy or sell one or two days after a big move gets under
way. Therefore it is not necessary to watch the tape every
day, or every hour, in order to determine what stocks are
going to do. It can be read just as easy and better after the
market closes. The tape is simply a record of prices, and if
you have this record of high and low prices made during the
day, you can form your judgments from it.

  Market movements depend upon Supply and Demand.
It requires volume of trading in proportionate large or small
amounts to move stocks up or down. The volume of sales
to the stock market is the same as the steam is to the locomo-
tive or the gasoline is to the automobile. The sales are the
motive power which drives prices up or down.

  For example: United States Steel has five million shares
of common stock, and it requires a very large volume of sales
to move this stock up or down very much. General Motors
has fifty million shares of common stock and its fluctuations
are confined to a very narrow range, because the buying or
selling of 100,000 shares will not move it more than a point,
if that much, while the buying of 100,000 shares of Baldwin
will often move it up or down five or ten points, because there
are only 200,000 shares of Baldwin outstanding and seldom
ever over 100,000 shares of stock floating in the street.

 Therefore, in order to understand the meaning of
volume, you must know the total capital stock outstanding
and the floating supply of the stock you are trading in. Mex
Pete for several years has made moves of from 50 to 100
points while U. S. Steel has not moved 10. The reason was
                                                                 7

that the floating supply of Mex Pete was very small while
the floating supply of U. S. Steel was very large.

  Another thing the tape reader must know is the financial
position of the stock, whether it is weak or strong. It is not
easy to frighten investors and traders and start a selling
move in a stock which is generally known to be in a very
strong financial position. Neither is it easy to force a stock
by manipulation to very high levels that is generally known
to have very little intrinsic value. Many stocks, known as
“Mystery Stocks,” which are supposed to have large con-
cealed assets, often have big moves up or down because the
public buy or sell on the hope that something favorable is
going to happen or on the fear that something unfavorable
is going to happen.

  As a rule, a stock that pays extra dividends or cuts a
melon, is talked about and rumors circulated months and
even years before the actual event takes place. Then, of
course, when the good news comes out, it has been anticipated
and discounted and the stock declines instead of advancing,
as the public expect.

 The tape is the great scale in which the weight of all
buying and selling is weighed and the balance of Supply and
Demand shown by the loss or gain in prices. When Supply
exceeds Demand, prices decline to a level where Supply and
Demand are about equal. At this stage fluctuations become
narrow and it may require weeks or months to determine
which way the next move will be. When Demand exceeds
Supply, prices advance.

  Then how can the man who stands over the ticker day
by day determine a big move before it starts? He can not.
The ticker will fool him once or twice each day while
it is getting ready. It requires time to buy a large amount
of stock when accumulation is taking place, and it requires
time to distribute a large amount of stock at the top. One
day, one week, or one month is not enough for a big move.
Sometimes it requires several months, or even a year, to
complete accumulation or distribution. While this process
is going on, you can keep up a chart of the stock you are
interested in and judge much better when the big move starts,
than you can by watching the ticker every day.
                           CHAPTER IV

                HOW THE TAPE FOOLS YOU

  The tape is used to fool traders, for often when stocks
look the weakest on the tape, they are the strongest as
accumulation is taking place. At other times when they are
booming and very active and appear the strongest, they are
really the weakest, because the insiders are selling while
everybody is enthusiastic and buying.

  The man who watches the tape daily is influenced by his
hopes and fears. He can not help it. Suppose that the
market has been strong all day, and the very stocks that he
is interested in are gradually moving up, when suddenly,
around 2:30 P.M. the market starts to break. It goes down
for fifteen minutes and active stocks are off a point from the
highs all around. It does not rally and by five minutes to 3,
or closing time, they are off another point. The volume is
heavy and he decides that something is wrong and he sells
out at the close. The next morning stocks open up from
1/2 to 1 point. Why? Because the selling in the last half
hour the day before was simply the result of profit taking
and all of the traders who were scared sold out at the close
rather than carry them over night, the result being that the
supply of stocks to be offered next morning was limited,
and the reaction had in no way interfered with or changed
the main trend.

   One great mistake the man makes who watches the ticker
all the time, is that he trades too often. He gets in and out
sometimes several times during the day, and each time he
pays commission. If he buys or sells higher or lower each
time, even though he has made profits on his trades, he is
increasing the percentage against him. A man who makes
300 trades in the year, or, say, one for each market day, must
pay an average of 1/2 point getting in and out. It cannot

                                   8
                                                                  9


be done for less. Then 1/2 point on 100 shares 300 times,
is 150 points for expenses during the year. Where is the
man who can make money with such a handicap? Suppose
a man makes one trade each month, or twelve trades during
the year. His expenses are only six points against the
scalper’s expense of 150.

  Another important fact traders overlook is that the more
times a man gets in or out of a market, the more times he
changes his judgment. Therefore, the percentage of his
being wrong increases. In a bull or bear market, there are
often big reverse moves opposite to the main trend, from
which big profits can be made, but a man can not catch them
by jumping in and out every day. He must wait until he
has a real cause and sufficient reasons, based on facts, before
he makes a trade. If he jumps in or out on hope or fear,
he will not only make losses, but he will miss the real oppor-
tunity when it comes. The daily moves generally mean very
little to the main trend of the market.


           OVERNIGHT BUYING OR SELLING ORDERS

  As a rule, out-of-town buying orders accumulate over
night. If the buying orders are in excess of the selling,
stocks will advance for the first thirty minutes, while the
public’s buying orders are being filled. Then a reaction will
take place. Prices may go lower than they were at the
opening; drift along in an uncertain way until about 2 :30
P.M. when the professional crowd on the floor decide to
even up; then either advance or decline for thirty minutes,
according to whether the floor traders are long or short.

  Remember that the professional floor traders have no
commission to pay. You can buy a stock that goes up 1/2
point; then sell out and you are just about even, after paying
taxes and commission, while the scalper on the floor makes
1/2 point, because he saves the commission.

  The newspapers on Sundays usually carry a review of
the market for the past week and the public, after reading
all of the news, send in their buying and selling orders for
Monday morning. If the orders are very heavy, they will
influence the market for thirty minutes and sometimes one
10


hour. After this, the trend of the market will be the op-
posite.

  A market that has been strong during the week or es-
pecially during the latter part of the week and closes strong
on Saturday, is likely to open strong Monday and finish the
advance in the first hour on Monday. Therefore, be very
careful about buying stocks on Monday morning’s strong
opening. Public buying orders which accumulate over Sun-
day are all executed Monday morning and as soon as this
demand is supplied professionals start selling and the market
has a reaction in proportion to its condition and position at
the time.

  Even if it is a bull market and going higher you will be
able to buy cheaper on Monday afternoon or Tuesday when
the professionals are hammering prices down after the public
buying wave has been satisfied.

  The above rule is reversed in a declining market. If
stocks have been weak all the week or during the last two
or three days of the week, and close at the low on Saturday,
forced selling by the public will come in Monday morning
and cause lower prices during the first 30 minutes to one
hour. After this pressure is off, the market will rally. There-
fore, it pays to sell on a strong rally Monday or to buy on
a weak market on Monday morning. This rule of course
applies to normal markets.


                             FALSE HOPES

  Another point, when a man is long or short of the market,
and has a loss, it is but human nature to hope that the trade
will go his way. Suppose he is called for margin early in
the day. He tells his broker that he will either put up the
margin before the close or sell out his stocks. The result is
he waits all day, and the market fails to rally. The last hour
comes, and hope gives away to despair and he sells out at the
close, which causes the market to close weak and near the
bottom, because hundreds of people are doing the same thing
at the same time.

 The same rule applies to people who are short of the mar-
ket. Stocks start advancing early in the day, and they wait for
                                                                 11


a reaction on which to cover. They look for a reaction around
the noon hour, but it fails to come. Again around 2 :00 P.M.
the market is stronger, and they hope for a reaction, but the
advance continues, with the result that near the close all of
the shorts get frightened and buy in their stocks. Of course,
the market closes on top and is left in a weak technical posi-
tion, and the next day the reaction comes.

  For a trader to succeed, he must study human nature and
do the opposite of what he finds the general public does.
The first day of a decline no one worries much, because they
consider it a natural reaction. A market will often start
declining on Wednesday. On Thursday the decline continues,
and the traders begin to sit up and take notice and think they
had better get out on the next rally. But Friday comes, and
no rally; instead stocks get weaker. Why? Because people
who would not sell on the first or second day of the decline
begin to sell on the third day, and by Saturday the whole
crowd gets scared and decides to get out and not go over
Sunday. The result is that prices will break badly in the last
hour and close near the bottom, while the wise trader or tape
reader who knew his business sold on the first indication of
weakness the first day and did not wait until everybody was
selling.

  This same rule applies to declines and advances lasting
weeks or months. The longer the market goes one way or
the other the greater the buying or selling in the last stage,
because hope or fear increases as the market advances or
declines, and it is hope and fear, not sound judgment, that
most people trade on.


               STOCKS DISCOUNT FUTURE EVENTS

  The stock market is an accurate barometer of business
conditions. Stock prices are nearly always six to twelve
months ahead of business conditions. First bond prices rise;
second stocks advance; third comes business boom. The
same happens in a decline. Stocks will be down six to eight
months while business is booming, because they are discount-
ing the future business depression.

 Market movements, that is, the main swings, are the
12


result or effect of causes which, as a rule, exist long before
the effect is known to the general public. In most cases, news
is discounted before it comes out and seldom has much effect
after it is generally known. Either good or bad news that
is expected usually falls flat as far as the effect on the market
is concerned.

  For instance, an extremely good or bad quarterly or
annual report on a stock comes out and the market does not
go up or down on it for the reason that it is not news to
those on the inside. They knew it thirty to ninety days before-
hand. Therefore, when the public gets the news and acts
on it, it is too late, for those on the inside who “know” have
already discounted it.

  If bad news comes out suddenly and stocks start selling
off in large volume, then it is safe to assume that the market
is going lower, that the public is long of stocks and the
insiders are out. If good news appears and stocks start
down, it shows that it has been discounted. Your charts
will show whether the market is in a period of distribution
or accumulation.


                   SUDDEN UNEXPECTED NEWS

  Sometimes sudden, unexpected events happen unforeseen.
For instance; the earthquake in San Francisco in 1906 was
wholly unexpected and unforeseen by either the public or the
insiders. It caused great loss and damage to property, and
the market started breaking immediately after it, and de-
clined for several weeks until it discounted the damage done
to the various properties affected in that territory. When
news of this kind comes out, that the market has not had
time to prepare for, its full weight and effect must be felt
after it comes out.

  On February 3, 1917 Germany suddenly and without
warning declared the U-Boat war against the United States.
The stock market had not fully discounted this event because
neither the general public nor the insiders knew it was coming.
Once the news was out, everyone knew that it meant that the
United States must enter the war against Germany. There-
fore, it was bad news which had not been fully discounted
                                                                13

and the market had yet to measure its effect. The result was
that stocks opened off anywhere from 5 to 20 points, but
supporting orders had been placed and the buying by shorts
afforded enough support to stop the decline in the first hour
of trading.

  When a move of this kind occurs and a market opens
away up or down, making a wide range, it is always well
to sell out long stocks or cover shorts and wait, because in
doing this you are following what the big traders do. On
February 3rd, after you saw the market open down on
heavy selling and you watched it for thirty minutes and saw
that prices did not get much lower than the opening, it would
be an indication that prices had opened at a level where there
was support and that a rally would come. If you were short,
the proper thing to do would be to cover at the market, then
wait and see how stocks acted on the rally that day and the
following day. If the rally was small and stocks again
declined easily and began to break the low levels made on
the day the bad news came out, it would be an indication that
prices were going lower.


                            ELECTIONS

  You will find it of great value if you will go back over
the years of Presidential elections and study the action of
the market and the formation of it on the chart in the early
part of the year and again just previous to the election and
following it. In most cases you will find that the event,
whether considered good or bad, was discounted beforehand.

  There is seldom ever a presidential year but what at
some time there is a scare and severe decline. Public senti-
ment gets mixed. They decide the Democrats are going to
win and the market starts in to discount it. However, it
makes no difference whether there is a Democratic president
or a Republican. If stocks have been distributed and are in
the hands of the public, they will go down during a Repub-
lican administration. We have had just as many panics when
a Republican president occupied the White House, as have
occurred when the Democrats were in power. It all depends
upon at what level prices are, and the condition of affairs
14


throughout the country. This will be plainly registered by
the tape and your chart will show it. If not, wait until you
get a clear indication.

  An extreme decline occurred in July and August, 1896,
which was known as the “Silver Panic.” The whole country
got scared and decided that Wm. J. Bryan was going to be
elected and that his silver dream would become a reality.
Investors and traders sold stocks regardless of value and on
August 8th, the average prices of industrial and railroad
stocks reached a level which was the lowest from that day
until the date of this writing.

  In 1912, when Wilson was elected for the first time, the
stock market advanced in September and October previous
to the election, because the Republicans were convinced that
the Democrats would not win. Therefore, they did not
create any scare to start the public selling stocks. Of course,
after Wilson was elected, which really was an unexpected
event to investors who believed and feared that the “d-----
Democrats” would ruin the country, they then began to sell
stocks and discount the Democratic administration. The war
followed in 1914 and completed the liquidation and made
it even worse than it would have been. But this decline in
stocks would have taken place even though a Republican had
been in power, for the good and sufficient reason that prices
were high, and that stocks had passed from strong hands
into weak, and the general condition of the country was not
such as to warrant the existing level of values at the time of
the election.


                     AFTER-ELECTION RALLIES

  When any important election, either presidential or
otherwise, takes place, and the market has pretty well dis-
counted it, but the general public throughout the country
figure that the event is favorable, they, of course, send in
buying orders the next day after election and stocks are
strong until this demand is satisfied. It will always pay you
to wait two or three days after election and see whether the
market continues to move in the same direction after election
as it did before. Stocks were strong the first day after
                                                              15


Wilson was elected the first time, but the decline started
promptly after public buying orders had been filled. Always
be careful of buying on top of after-election rallies. In the
same way, if stocks open off and decline the first two or three
days after election, be careful about selling them, as it may
be only the public selling because they are scared and the
insiders may support the market and start an advance.
                            CHAPTER V

                   HOW STOCKS ARE SOLD

  When new companies are formed and capital is needed,
the stock has to be sold to the public, and there is no differ-
ence in the method of selling stock and the method used by
business men in selling their goods. A good business man
advertises his goods and that is what the manipulators do.
When they wish to distribute stocks and get them into the
hands of the public, they use the newspapers in every way
possible to advertise the stock. Their fluctuations are given
wide publicity and everything possible is done to attract the
public.

  It requires wide fluctuations and activity to entice the
public to take a hand. They may pay very little attention
to a stock selling around 40 when it is only fluctuating 5 or 6
points in three or four months, but when this same stock
reaches 150 and begins to fluctuate 5 and 10 points each day,
everybody talks about it. They see great opportunities for
making big profits and begin to trade in it. The result is
that the wide publicity and advertising induces the public to
buy all the stock at a high price. Then the decline starts.
They hold on and hope, and nothing much is said about it
until the stock gets near the bottom, when all the bad news
comes out and everybody talks about it.


             THE WISH IS FATHER TO THE THOUGHT

  When you read the opinion of any man, whether it be
a newspaper writer, the president of some big bank or the
head of some large corporation, consider and give due weight
to the fact that when he talks optimistic, he has something
to sell to the public and is not likely to talk in a way to hurt
his own business.

                                   16
                                                                  17

  Many years ago there was a Mr. B. in Wall Street who
gathered a lot of information and sometimes wrote for the
newspapers. He was well known and often visited different
brokerage offices, and traders eagerly sought his opinion.
They would say “Mr. B., what do you think of Union Paci-
fic?” He would reply: “I think it is going up; anyway,
I hope it does, for I am long of it.” Now, that was his
reason for thinking the stock would go up. He owned some
of it, and his hope and wish was that it would advance. He
certainly did not feel like telling the other fellow that he
believed it was going down. If he did, he might start a
selling wave that would hurt his own interest.


                          OVER-OPTIMISM

  If you have read the newspapers carefully over a long
period of years, or if you will go back and look up records,
you will find that prominent business men who are heads of
large corporations, are nearly always optimistic. Panics
come, and depressions lasting from one to five years, with
stocks declining anywhere from 25 to over 100 points, yet
these men are always optimistic. Do you believe that they
are so far wrong in their judgment that they can not see the
trend at the time? Certainly not. They have goods to sell.
They must conceal it from the public and talk for their own
interests.

  I can not recall the time when the officials of the U. S.
Steel Corporation were ever pessimistic. Yet, the stock has
passed its dividend several times and suffered severe depres-
sions, which as far as the records are concerned, were all
unforeseen by the directors.

  It is a good thing to be an optimist, but whether it be in
business or the stock market, it is the truth that helps and
protects, and not false hopes and unwarranted optimism.
Hopes will not keep the margin call away from you in a
panic. The only way to avoid these uncomfortable condi-
tions is to go with the trend of the market and not against it.

  The newspapers, as a rule, are against printing anything
of a pessimistic nature. In 1920 and 1921 when I issued
my forecast on general business conditions, I had based it
18

on the truth and scientific facts. It showed that very de-
pressing conditions were coming in 1920 and 1921, but most
of the newspapers refused to publish my predictions. Yet
they were all fulfilled with remarkable accuracy.

  Forewarned is forearmed! It is certainly better to tell the
public before depressing conditions start that they are com-
ing and let them prepare for them, than to wait until the
crisis is on and then tell them -- as the newspapers do -- what
caused all the trouble. Every effect is the result of a cause,
and the cause must exist long before the effect can be seen
by the general public. The proper thing to do is to determine
the cause and act on it, for if you wait until you can see the
effect, loss in the stock market is certain.


                           TRADERS APE

  After a man has been around Wall Street for twenty
years and watches the actions of traders and listens to what
they talk about, he will be convinced that the origin of man
was certainly from the monkey or the ape, because the
average trader simply apes some leader, repeats what he
heard some great man say, believes it and applies it to his
own case to increase his hopes or assuage his fears.

  The late Mr. Morgan once said, “A man who is a bear
on this country will go broke.” I have often heard traders
in a brokerage office talking bullish and buying, say, when a
conservative man would warn them that bulls sometimes
make money and bears sometimes make money but that a
hog never makes anything: “Don’t sell stocks short. A man
who is a bear on this country will go broke.” When Mr.
Morgan, whose opinion as a business man is worthy of
respect, made this statement, he was not talking about the
stock market at all. If he had been, he would have said
that the man who is a bull at the top of markets, which occur
every few years, is sure to go broke, and the man who is a
bear at the bottom is sure to go broke.

  If traders would only use a little “horse sense” and do
their own thinking, stop aping and swallowing all the news-
papers tell them and analyze the reason or the motive behind
the men who talk optimistic at the top and pessimistic at the
                                                             19

bottom, they would make a great deal more money. To
make success in the stock market you must do your own
studying and thinking. Be neither a bull nor a bear, and no
matter whose opinion you follow, you will be much better
off if you can verify it by your own study of charts, which
show the conditions as revealed by the tape, and the thoughts
and opinions registered by the majority, and not the opinion
of one man or one group of men, no matter how strong they
may be.

  The Standard Oil interests might be very bullish, and
talk bullish. They might be honest and conscientious about
it, and might be backing up their opinions by buying Standard
Oil stocks, but the tape will register the buying and selling
of all the people in the United States, and if that force of
supply and demand shows that the selling of the many is
greater than the buying of the few, the stock will decline until
it reaches a level where demand exceeds supply.


                       SIGNS OF THE TIMES

  The Bible says “There is a time for everything.” All
the laws of Nature teach this. There is a time to sow and
a time to reap. The four seasons of the year teach us that
there is a reaping time and a sowing time, and that we can not
reverse this order of Nature’s laws. Man does not try to
grow oranges on Greenland’s icy mountains; neither does he
expect to cut ice from the tropical rivers in Florida, because
it is out of season, time, and place. It is the same with the
stock market. There is a time to buy and a time to sell, and
when this time comes, neither bunches of bears nor bevys of
bulls with hot air, hope, optimism, extreme pessimism, de-
pression or bad reports, can force prices above or below the
zones of Supply and Demand, out of season. You must learn
to go with the tide, and not against it. Discern the signs of
the times, and do not get caught in the undertow when the
tide is flowing out. Those who hesitate and are late in
buying or selling in the last stage invariably have to take
losses.
                           CHAPTER VI

                     YOUR WEAK POINTS

  Man know thyself! It has been well said that the great-
est study of mankind is man. Experience is the only school
in which most of us learn. Therefore it is necessary to
analyze the cause of our mistakes much more carefully than
our successes. A great success, either in business or the stock
market, is not attained over night.

             “The heights by great men reached and kept
                  Were not attained by single flight,
                But they while their companions slept
                 Were toiling upward in the night.”

Mushroom growth is followed by mushroom decay. A man
who suddenly becomes wealthy over night or by a master
lucky stroke in the stock market, seldom keeps it. It is the
old story: “Easy come, easy go.” The man who makes a
success and keeps his money is the man who, after years of
experience, has profited by his mistakes and schooled himself
against his weak points.

  To make a success in speculation, you must master your-
self. You will find that you are either a natural born Bull
or a natural born Bear, i.e., you either always hope and
believe that stocks will go higher than they do, or you hope
and believe that they will decline lower than they do. Then,
you must discount your weak points in trading, and know
that a lot of your judgment is not judgment at all, but the
result of your natural weakness or inclination for one side
or the other. Learn to see things in a normal state and do
not exaggerate either on the bull or bear side.

  Some men will find that they have too much nerve; are
too hopeful; therefore they overtrade. Others will find that
they lack nerve or courage and are afraid to buy or sell

                                  20
21

enough at the right time. These weak points must be over-
come. You must learn to trade so that there will be no hope
and no fear when you enter the market. You enter it as the
result of deliberation and upon what you believe to be the
proper basis for buying or selling. But you must remember
that you can be wrong and that the way to protect yourself
against wrong judgment is to place a stop loss order at the
time you make the trade. Then you do not have to hope it
will go your way or fear that it will go against you, for you
know that your loss is limited, and if the loss comes, you will
be in a position to make another trade later which will prob-
ably prove profitable.
                           CHAPTER VII

               ESSENTIAL QUALIFICATIONS

                              PATIENCE

  Patience is a virtue, especially in the stock market. Ac-
quire it if you can. You must have patience to wait for the
right opportunity to come, and not be overanxious and get
in too soon. Once you buy or sell a stock and it starts
moving in your favor, you must have patience to hold it until
there is a good reason or sufficient cause for closing the trade.
Never close a trade just because you have a profit; do not
become impatient and get out for no real reason. Every act,
either in opening or closing a trade, must have a sound basic
cause behind it. Hopes and fears must be eliminated. There
is no use selling a stock because you fear it is going down,
nor buying it because you hope it is going up. Look at your
charts and see which way the trend points and follow it. If
no definite trend is shown, use your patience and wait.


                                NERVE

  Nerve is just as essential as patience; in fact, nerve is
the equal of capital. In getting my experience, I have been
broke over 40 times, i.e., I have lost all of my money, but
there never has been a time yet when I lost my nerve. Years
ago, when I was experimenting and working on methods for
forecasting the market, I would get in the market wrong
and lose all my working capital, but I never let it get my
“goat.” I studied very carefully how I made the mistake
and what the cause of the loss was. In this way, I profited
by every mistake and loss, and was enabled to perfect my
method of forecasting and trading so that I could make a
success.

                                   22
                                                                 23

  Looking backward brings nothing but regrets. I always
believe in facing the future with nerve and hope. But let
the nerve and the hope be based on some sound principle
that will prevent costly mistakes of the past. During my
career I have seen many traders who had made one mistake
after another and suffered severe losses, and still had some
capital to work with but when an opportunity appeared, they
lacked the nerve to act. In cases of this kind, the nerve
would have been more valuable than capital.


                            KNOWLEDGE

  In the early part of my career I made some great suc-
cesses, and what might be called lucky strikes. I made a lot
of money easily and then I spent or lost it easily. But I did
not give up or lose my nerve. I always figured that I was
a better man after each reverse, because I had acquired
experience.

  Experience is the only school to learn in and the burnt
child is the one who knows the pain from having put his
fingers in the fire. Mistakes are all right and hard to avoid.
They are good for us, because if we profit by them, they
prove valuable. But it is wrong to make the same mistake
the second time. Therefore, use every mistake as a stepping
stone to progress; analyze each mistake you make and the
cause of every loss, in order to avoid repeating the same
error in future.

  With each experience I had, good or bad, I accumulated
knowledge, and after all, knowledge is the greatest power
of all, for capital will always come to knowledge. Several
years ago a brokerage failure occurred suddenly and unex-
pectedly, and I lost all of my money. To the ordinary man's
way of figuring I was broke, but as a friend of mine expressed
it at the time, “He may be without cash, but the knowledge
that he has of the stock market is worth hundreds of thou-
sands of dollars and in a short time he will turn that knowl-
edge into cash.” I did come back quickly in a few months’
time on a small capital, because I had a greater knowledge
of the stock market than ever before, and knowing, by ex-
perience, that I had a method based upon mathematical
24

science which could be depended upon to forecast the stock
market, I had the nerve to pyramid and press the market
hard when my science showed that I was on the right side.
What would have been the result had I been without knowl-
edge and only filled with hope? I would have stayed broke,
as other traders do who follow the fairy phantom of “hope”
in Wall Street trading.


                         HEALTH AND REST

  Good health is essential to success in any line. It is one
of the great assets for success in the speculative market. At
least twice a year a man should close up all of his trades,
get entirely out of the market, and go away for a vacation
or stay away from the market and rest up. Let your mind
rest and your judgment get clear. The man who continually
sticks to any business too long without a rest or change gets
his judgment warped. He gets in a rut and sees things from
a one-sided point of view.

  When you are in the market on either side, it is but
human nature for you to hope that it will go your way, and
you, therefore, give greater weight to any event that seems
to indicate a favorable move to your side. When you are
out of the market, you are able to see things as they really
are, and judge the market without a distorted view, with
hope and fear eliminated. Traders who are continually in
the market day in and day out and never allow any time to
elapse between trades, sooner or later lose all their money.

  I know one trader who follows scientific forecasting and
makes a success. He never makes more than five or six
trades in the year. If he buys stocks during the winter or
early spring for a rise, and the advance materializes as he
expected, he sells out and takes his profits. Then he leaves
the market alone, sometimes for several months. In the
summer, if he sees indications of a bull or a hear market
starting, he gets in again, and if the market moves his way,
he may follow it up and pyramid for several months. When
he gets an indication that the end is near, he closes up his
trades, takes his profits, and like the wild geese, wends his
way to the sunny South. Sometimes he stays all winter in
                                                                 25

Florida, hunting and fishing; then goes over to Hot Springs,
Arkansas, takes a course of baths; returns to Wall Street
in good health and fit for another tilt with the Bulls and
Bears.

  He makes a specialty of trading in certain favorite
stocks. He studies them closely and watches for certain
signs that he considers almost infallible. When these signs
come, he acts. He does not hurry until the time comes, but
when it does, then there is no hesitation -- he buys or sells.
He keeps cool, calm and collected, and waits for the time
to open or close a trade.

  Another thing he never does is to expect any fixed amount
of profits or set any specific time for getting out. I have
often seen him make a trade and it would go against him.
He would get out and say, “Well, I guess I’ll go back to
my office and watch them for awhile.” Sometimes it would
be days or weeks before he made another trade, but when
he did, it was based on some good sound reason, and 90 per
cent of the time the second trade proved a winner. But
suppose he had held the first trade he made and hoped it
would move his way. His judgment, being biased, would
have become more unreliable all the time. There is nothing
like being out of the market and looking them over from an
impartial viewpoint. When there is no definite trend, stay
out, watch and wait, and your patience will be rewarded.
                               BOOK II

                        HOW TO TRADE
  “The greatest achievement was at first and for a time a dream.
The oak sleeps in the acorn; the bird waits in the egg; and in the
highest vision of the soul a waking angel stirs. Dreams are the
seedlings of realities.” -- ALLEN.

                                _______

  Have a well-defined plan before you start trading, then
follow that plan, as the architect does in building a house,
or the engineer in constructing a bridge or driving a tunnel.

 The man who changes his ideas or his plans, which are
based on something practical, for no other reason than that
he hopes or fears the market will do something different,
will never make a success.

  Don’t guess or follow tips. Very few people from the
inside ever give out good information. Have a reason for
every trade; don’t trade on hope. If that is the only reason
or excuse you have for holding a stock, get out quickly and
you will save money. Conditions change and you must learn
to change your mind.

  First find out if a rule is practical; if it is based on sound
reasoning. Go back over past records and convince yourself
that it pays to use it. The valuable part of the rules that
I have laid down and the theory that I am teaching is that
it can all be proved. You do not have to accept my word
for it. Look up the records; examine the facts and satisfy
yourself.

                                    27
                           CHAPTER VIII

            RULES FOR SUCCESSFUL TRADING

  If you can not follow a rule, do not begin speculating or
investing, as you are sure to lose.

  Learn to adhere strictly to a rule or do not follow it
at all.

  The following rules should be carefully studied and ap-
plied in your trading:


                       1ST: CAPITAL REQUIRED

  You would not try to run an automobile and start out
to travel several hundred miles unless you knew how much
gasoline it required to run a given number of miles. Yet,
you go into speculation without knowing one of the most
important things, -- the amount of capital required to succeed
and make speculation a business.

  Do not try to get rich in a few months or a year. A man
certainly should be satisfied if he can acquire a competent
fortune over a period of ten to twenty years. Often we have
one year when a man with nerve and knowledge and a small
amount of capital can make a fortune. I have been able to
pile up enormous profits in a short time by pyramiding, but
this can not be done continuously and I do not claim to be
able to do it. What I am trying to teach you is a safe, sure
way, which will yield more profits than any other business
on earth if you will only be conservative and not make specu-
lation a wild gamble.

 A man may go into business and lose all of his money
and then years pass before he has another opportunity to
make a large amount of money in that or any other business.
Yet, in the speculative markets opportunities return every

                                    28
                                                                  29

year, provided a man has studied enough to see them when
they appear. The chances for gain are so unusual and so
many great opportunities do come in Wall Street that the
average man gets greedy, gambles and does not wait between
times for the real opportunity.

  People expect more profits in speculation than in any
other business. A man who would be satisfied with a return
of 25 per cent per year in a business is not satisfied if he
doubles his capital every month in Wall Street. Many people
are satisfied with 4 per cent in a savings bank, but when they
come to Wall Street and put up $1,000.00 they expect to
make $1,000.00 in two or three weeks. They are the people
who buy on a 10-point margin and always lose.

  Do not expect the impossible in speculative markets.
Great and unusual opportunities, when you can start at the
bottom or top of a move, pyramid and make a fortune, occur
every few years. Two or three times each year, when stocks
are at the extreme high or low, there are opportunities for
making 10 to 40 points’ profit.

  You may think an average of 1/2 point a day, or 3 points
a week, is too small a profit to bother with. Yet, in 52 weeks
it would amount to 156 points, or $1,560.00 a year, on a
10-share trade. Make speculation a business, not a gamble.
Go into it to stay, not to gamble all on a few trades, lose and
quit. Be patient. If you can double $1,000.00 the first year
and keep doubling it for ten years, you would have over a
million dollars.

  Active leading stocks make major moves of 10 to 40
points three to four times a year. If you are able to catch
half of these major moves on conservative trades, your
profits will be enormous. Do not try to catch all the minor
fluctuations. The inside manipulators themselves do not get
one-tenth of the minor fluctuations. Why should you ex-
pect to?

  In beginning to trade in stocks the most important thing
to know is the amount of capital required. Many traders
make the mistake of thinking that about 10 points margin
is enough. Nothing is more erroneous. The man who starts
trading on 10 points’ margin is gambling, not even making
safe, speculative ventures. When you start to trade use your
30

capital as you would in a business, and in such a conservative
way that you can continue.

  For trading in stocks selling at $100.00 per share or
over, you should have $5,000.00 for each 100 shares you
trade in; $2,500.00 for trading in stocks selling over $50.00;
$1,500.00 for stocks selling around $25.00; $1,000.00 for
stocks selling at $10.00 to $15.00. This amount of capital
is not to margin stocks and let them run against you 10 to 30
points. It is to be used to make a large number of trades
and pay small losses when they occur. You should always
limit your loss on each trade to about 3 points and never
more than 5 points.

  If you have only $300.00 to start trading with, when you
buy or sell a stock, place a 3-point stop loss order on it. This
will allow you to make ten trades on your capital. Suppose
you make five consecutive trades and lose, your capital will
be half gone, but if on the next trade you are right and
make 15-points’ profit, you will regain all of your losses; or,
if you make three trades with 5 points’ profit, they would
wipe out the losses of five trades with 3 point losses on each.


                        2ND: LIMIT YOUR RISK

  A strong will power is just as essential as plenty of
capital. If you have not the firmness, will power, and deter-
mination to protect every trade with a stop loss order, do not
start trading, for you will fail.

  I have often heard traders say “If I place a stop loss
order at a certain point the market is sure to catch it.” Yet
they realize afterward that the stop loss order being caught
was the best thing that could happen to them. There is
nothing better than getting out quickly when you are wrong.
The man who refuses to get out when he is wrong usually
stays until his money is gone and the margin clerk sells him
out.

  A lot of people do not know how to place a stop loss
order on a trade when they make it. A stop loss order is an
order given to the broker that becomes a market order when
the stock reaches the price at which it is placed. For
example:
                                                                 31

  We will assume that you buy 100 shares of U. S. Steel
at 106. You feel that 2 points is enough to risk on the trade
And that if it declines to 104 you would sell it out. It is not
necessary for you to sit in a broker's office and watch the
ticker until Steel declines to 104 and then get up and tell
the broker to sell 100 Steel at the market. When you buy
the stock simply give your broker an order reading as follows:

 Sell 100 U. S. Steel at 104 Stop G. T. C.

which means “good till cancelled.” Now, suppose that Steel
declines to 104. When it reaches this price, your broker
sells 100 at the market. He may get 104 for it or he may
get 103 7/8 or 103 3/4, but you know that when it reaches this
price your stock will be sold. A broker can not guarantee
to sell your stock at the limit of your stop loss order, but he
does sell it immediately at the next best price after your stop
loss order price is reached.

  Suppose that you sell U. S. Steel short at 1o6 instead of
buying it, and that you want to protect yourself against loss.
You give your broker an order to buy 100 U. S. Steel at 108
stop G. T. C. If it reaches this price, he buys in the stock.

  If your stop is not reached and the market goes in your
favor, you must then cancel your stop loss order when you
close out your trade with a profit. You can, of course, give
a stop loss order good for one day, one week, or any specified
length of time, but the best way to place the order is G. T. C.;
then you do not have to worry about it.


           3RD: OVERTRADING -- THE GREATEST EVIL

  Overtrading is the cause of more losses than anything
else in Wall Street. The average man does not know how
much capital is required to make a success and he buys or
sells more than he should. Therefore he is forced to get out
of the market when his capital is nearly exhausted and prob-
ably misses opportunities for making profits. Make up your
mind how much loss you can afford before you make a trade
and not afterward.
                                                                32



  Stick to small quantities. Be conservative. Do not over-
trade, especially at the bottom or top of long moves. For-
tunes are lost trying to catch the last 3 to 5 points in extreme
moves. Keep cool. Avoid getting overconfident at tops
and bottoms. Study your charts carefully and do not allow
your judgment to be influenced by hope or fear.

 Many a trader has started out trading in 10 shares and
made a success because he started near top or bottom; then
when the market had reached extreme, he began trading in
100-share lots and lost all of his profits and capital too,
because he violated the conservative principle which helped
him to make a success.

  If you make one trade and it starts to go against you,
you are wrong. Then why buy or sell more to average a
loss? When things are getting worse, day by day in every
way, why do your best to make them get worse in every way?
Stop the loss before it is eternally too late. Every trader
should remember that the weakest point of all is overtrading,
and the next, failing to place a stop loss order, and the third
fatal mistake of all, averaging a loss. Eliminate these three
mistakes and you will make a success. Cut short your losses,
let your profits run, pyramid or increase your buying or sell-
ing when the market is moving in your favor, not when it is
going against you.

  Remember that wild, active markets are brought about
by feverish manipulation, and that they increase the imagina-
tion, exaggerate your hopes, and take away all sense of
reason and proportion. Therefore, in extreme markets try
to keep a cool head. Remember that all things come to an
end, and that a train going 6o miles an hour will cause a
greater smash-up if it leaves the track than one traveling
5 miles an hour. Therefore, in a wild runaway market,
jump before she bumps, for you will never be able to get
out once the crash comes. When everybody wants to sell,
and no one wants to buy, profits run into losses fast.

  The great bull market of 1919 shows plainly what hap-
pens when everybody gets crazy bullish, and can see no top
in sight. This bull market reached a point where everybody
was bullish and buying, and no one on the outside dared to
sell short. It was one of the fastest markets in history. And
                                                                33

what happened? When the “bubble busted” in the early
days of November and the decline started, some stocks were
off 50 to 6o points in two weeks’ time, and the profits made
during the whole campaign that year were wiped out in ten
days. The man who waited for a rally to get out on after
the move started down never had a chance, because every-
body was trying to get out, and the further prices declined,
the more people there were forced to sell out, with the result
that the market got weaker as it declined lower.


          4TH : NEVER LET A PROFIT RUN INTO A LOSS

  More traders are ruined by violating this rule than any
other, except overtrading. When you buy or sell a stock
and it shows you a profit of 3 to 4 points, what is the sense
or reason for ever risking any more of your capital on it?
Place a stop loss order where you will get out even or better;
then you have all to win and nothing to lose. If the trade
continues to move in your favor, you can follow it up with
a stop loss order.

 People often buy or sell a stock and it shows them a good
profit, but they are “hoggish,” expect more, hold on and
hope and let it run into a loss, which is very poor business,
and the man who follows it will not succeed in the end. Al-
ways protect your principal in every way possible.


                   5TH: DON’T BUCK THE TREND

  The way to make money is to determine the trend and
then follow it. When you are in a Bear market and the
long trend is down, it is always much safer to wait for rallies
and sell short than to buy. If you are in a big Bear market
where stocks are going to break from 50 to 200 points, you
can miss the bottom several times on the way down and lose
all of your capital.

  The same applies to a Bull market. You should never
sell short on an advancing market. It is better to wait for
reactions and buy than to try to pick tops for selling. Big
profits are made by going with the trend and not against it.

 One of the most vital and important things for either an
34

investor or a trader to learn is to take a loss and take it
quickly. When you see that you are wrong there is no use
putting up more margin and holding on and hoping. If you
take a small loss quickly and get out of the market, your
judgment will be much better and you can see an opportunity
to get in again and make profits.


                  6TH: WHEN IN DOUBT GET OUT

  When you buy or sell a stock and it does not act right
immediately or start to move in your favor within a reason-
able length of time, get out of it. Your judgment gets worse
the longer you hold on and hope for the market to go your
way, and at extremes you always do the wrong thing. It is
much better to take a quick loss of 2, 3, or 5 points than to
hold on and hope and eventually take anywhere from a 10
to a 50-point loss.

  Stocks are not going to stop going up or down once they
start just for your benefit. Always remember what Jim
Keene said: “If stocks won’t go your way, you must go their
way.” Always go with the tide; never buck it. If you were
on a railroad track and saw a train coming at 6o miles an
hour, would you stand there and hope that the train would
stop before it hit you, or would you hope that maybe you
could knock it off the track? Of course you wouldn’t. You
would get out of the way and do it quick. You should do
the same thing in the stock market -- Get out; let them go
by, or get aboard and ride with them.


                  7TH: TRADE IN ACTIVE STOCKS

  Always confine your trading to standard, active stocks
listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Outside stocks
have spurts, but the active leaders yield more profits in the
long run. Stocks traded in on the New York Stock Exchange
always have a good market and you can get in and out when
you want to. Ninety per cent of the unlisted and curb stocks
disappear sooner or later. Leave the pups, cats and dogs,
and mining stocks alone.

 The same group of stocks over a long period of time do
                                                                35

not remain leaders. Changing conditions in the country cause
certain groups to lead for a time, then become laggards,
while new groups become public favorites and leaders.

  It is the same thing with individual stocks of the different
groups. As a rule, a stock that becomes a favorite and a
leader will continue active anywhere from five to ten years.
After this period of time, it will pass into the hands of
investors and its activity will cease. Fluctuations will become
narrow because investors do not jump in and out every day.
They hold for a long time, and finally when they do start to sell
out for some good reason, or get scared, then the old time
leaders become active on the down side until liquidation has
been completed.

    Of course, the big money is always made in trading in
stocks that fluctuate over a wide range. For this reason,
you must always be on the lookout for a new leader that
will give opportunities for making big profits. Be up-to-date,
keep up with the new stocks as they are listed, watch their
development, and you will be able to pick the new live leaders
and discard the old, inactive stocks. Big money is made, not
from dividends but from fluctuations, if you know how to
trade quickly. That is why it pays to trade in active stocks
that make a wide range. If you have to take a loss in stocks
of this kind, you can make it back very quickly, because
opportunities occur often.


                8TH: EQUAL DISTRIBUTION OF RISK

  There is an old saying, “Never put all of your eggs in
one basket.” And in the stock market it is a very good rule
to follow. If you are in position to do so, select as many as
four or five stocks, one from each of the different groups.
Buy or sell in equal amounts.

  Divide your capital up so that you can make seven to ten
trades with it. Suppose you have $5,000.00. Trade in 100-
share lots and limit risks to 3 to 5 points. You would be
able to stand five or six consecutive losses and still have
capital to work with. By letting your profits run one big
profit will often wipe out four or five small losses. But, if
36

you take big losses and small profits, you have no chance of
gaining in the end.

  If you can only trade in 50 shares, take 10 shares each
of five different stocks. Place stop loss orders on these
trades from 3 to 5 points away, according to the indications
on the stocks you are trading in. Two of these stocks may
go against you and catch your stop while the other three
may not. This will leave you part of your holdings and if
they move in your favor, will make back your losses on the
others and show profits.

  If you get into the market right and with a reason,
records show that it very seldom occurs that you would get
the stops caught on all of your stocks. You may not always
make as much profit as you would to trade in one or two
of the active, fast moving stocks, but you will be safer. That
is my aim: To teach you safety; help you protect yourself
and cut short your losses in every possible way and let your
profits run.


         9TH: FIXING A PRICE OR POINT TO BUY OR SELL

  The majority of people have a habit when they buy or
sell a stock, of fixing in their minds a certain figure at which
they expect to take profits. There is no reason or cause for
this. It is simply a bad habit based on hope. When you
make a trade, your object should be to make profits and there
is no way that you can determine in advance how much profits
you can expect on any one particular trade. The market
itself determines the amount of your profit, and the thing
that you must do is to be ready to get out and accept a profit
whenever the trend changes and not before. Remember the
market is not going to act to please you or go to certain
figures just because you want to buy or sell at those figures.

  Many traders lose big profits by fixing the price at which
they intend to sell. Stocks sometimes go within 2, 3 or 4
points of their selling price and start to decline. They hold
on and hope. Just because it does not reach the point that
they have fixed in their minds, they often hold on and hope
until they lose all the profits and take a loss, refusing to see
that the trend has changed. Hope will ruin any man who
                                                                37

follows it in the stock market. To succeed you must face
facts, and facts are often cold and stubborn and do not agree
with your hope, but you must accept them for your own good.

  In nearly every bull or bear campaign in the market the
general public gets certain fixed points in their heads where
stocks are going to make tops or bottoms. The newspapers
talk about certain favorite stocks going to 100, 125, 150 or
175. Everybody gets the idea that these prices are going
to be made and they become “hope” prices, but are never
realized.

  To illustrate this: During the fall of 1909, when the
bull campaign in stocks was at its height and Steel common
had advanced to around 90, the newspapers began to talk
of 100 for “little Steel.” The public all got the idea in their
heads that Steel was sure to make 100 and that was the place
they were going to sell and take profits. The writer predicted
that Steel would advance to 94 7/8 and no higher, which it
did, and he sold out, while the “hope” crowd held on and
eventually took losses, for U. S. Steel declined eventually to
38. Several years later when it did reach 100, it was the
place to buy and not to sell, for it immediately advanced to
129 3/4.

  The man who tries to get the last point or the top or
bottom eighth generally loses all his profits. You do not
have to get in at the bottom and out at the top to make big
money. All you have to do is to look over the list of the active
leading stocks and you will find that they make moves of from
50 to 150 points between bottom and top every few years.
Then, if you can get in after the stock has advanced 10 points
from the bottom, and sell out within 10 points of the top,
you certainly will be able to accumulate plenty of profits.

  Never get the idea in your head that you can or will hold
a stock until it goes your way. This is nothing but pure
stubbornness and is not based on any sound logic or reason-
ing. In case of doubt, get out. Do not hesitate. Delays
are always dangerous. Do as the insiders do: If they can
not get what they want, they take what they can get; if the
market will not take what they have to offer, they offer what
it will take; if the market will not go their way, they go its
way. A wise man changes his mind, a fool never.
38


         10TH: WHEN TO TAKE PROFITS

  Never close a trade just because you have a profit. The
time to hold on is when the tide is running in your favor.
When tempted to close a trade just because you have a profit
ask yourself the questions: “Do I need the money?” “Is the
move over?” “Do I have to sell?” “Why should I take
profits?”

  Look at your charts; do what they tell you. If they do not
show a change in trend, wait. Protect profits with stop
loss order, but do not take a profit too soon. This is just
as bad as taking a loss too late. Patience to hold on when
you are right and nerve to get out quickly when you are
wrong will make a success.


                  11TH: ACCUMULATE A SURPLUS

  A surplus must be accumulated before you increase your
trading quantities. Margins are not to hold on with, only
“lambs” do that. If big risks are required, do not make
the trade. Wait for an opportunity when you can buy or
sell and place a stop loss order 3 to 5 points away. It is
financial suicide to take big losses when they can be prevented.

  You must not expand until after you have made profits.
Every important business concern carefully creates a surplus
and is proud to publish it. No business is run without a loss
at some time and a speculator or investor must expect losses.
Therefore, he must create a surplus out of which he can pay
losses and still continue to trade.

  In very active markets, when trading in high priced
stocks, as a rule it does not pay to take a loss amounting to
more than two consecutive days’ fluctuations. If stocks go
against you two days, they are likely to go more. Take your
loss out of your surplus and leave your capital unimpaired
and wait for another opportunity.


                   12TH: BUYING FOR DIVIDENDS


  A great many people make the mistake of always want-
ing to buy stocks that will pay dividends. Do not buy stocks
                                                               39

just because they pay dividends, nor sell them because they
do not. Often people hold stocks because they continue to
pay big dividends, only to see their capital half or more
wiped out; then the dividend is cut or passed altogether.
Look to the protection of your capital, not for dividend
returns. Trade for points of profit, not dividends. Fluctua-
tions yield more money than dividends and you will be able
to tell when stocks are being accumulated or distributed for
an advance or a decline.

  If a stock is selling very low or out of line according to
the dividend it pays, there is probably something wrong and
it is a better short sale than a purchase. If a stock is selling
very high and pays no dividend, there is a reason for it and
you should not sell it short. Probably it is going to pay a
dividend or it is in a very strong position. Otherwise it
would not be selling at a high price.

  Manipulation for a time will force stocks above or below
their intrinsic value, but in the end Supply and Demand
govern the course of prices, and values are based on these
factors. I intend to teach you how to tell when Supply and
Demand show the place where you should buy or sell.

  The word “dividend” means a division of profits or earnings,
but often when you buy Curb or mining stocks the word
means “divy,” or that you divide up your capital with the
other fellow and later lose all.
                           CHAPTER IX

                  METHODS OF OPERATING

  After you have learned the rules for successful trading,
it is then necessary to determine the best methods for
operating either on the buying or selling side. All of these
factors help you to overcome the weak points and enable
you to make a better success.


                         BUYING OUTRIGHT

 Many people think that the only safe and sure way to
make money on stocks is by buying outright. This is a sad
mistake and has caused many a trader to come to grief.
Study the records of past movements and you will find ample
proof of my statement. You need only to refer to the great
depressions that have occurred during the past forty or fifty
years to prove that it can cost the entire amount of the price
you pay when buying outright, i.e., stocks will not only go
down to nothing, but they can be assessed.

  How many people have you heard say “I own my stocks
outright; I have nothing to worry about.” They are just
the people who should worry. Every year many stocks go
out of existence or are assessed. How do people know that
they have the one safe, good stock on the list?

  At present there are about 700 stocks listed on the New
York Stock Exchange. In five or ten years from this time
conditions may so change that over 25 per cent of these
stocks will be worthless or have declined enough to ruin any
man who buys them outright and holds them.

  You must have something better than buying outright to
protect you in order to make money. It is just as safe to
trade on conservative margin, and you will make much

                                   40
                                                               41

greater profits when you know the right stock to buy or sell
and the right time.

  In the boom which culminated in the Fall of 1919, many
stocks had advanced in nine months from 25 to over 100
points. Suppose people bought any of these stocks outright
within 20 to 50 points of the top and held them through the
decline of 1920 and 1921. Some stocks declined 100 to 180
points. There were no exceptions. All stocks suffered tre-
mendous losses, and many of them will never sell again at
the prices they reached in 1919.

  The man who sold stocks short in 1919 and played the
short side in 1920 and 1921 until the summer of 1921 was
the man who made the money. Below I give you the high
prices of some stocks in 1919 and the low prices in 1921,
which will prove to you what can happen to a man who buys
stocks outright and feels safe:

                          High              Low             Points
                          1919             1920 & 1921      decline

American Woolen           169 1/2          55 1/2           114
Am. Intern’l              132 1/4          21 1/4           111
Atlantic Gulf W. I        192 1/4          18               174 1/2
Crucible Steel            278 1/2          49               229 1/2
General Asphalt           16o              32 1/2           127 1/2
Kelly Springfield         164              25 1/2           138 1/2
Mexican Pete              264              84 1/2           179 1/2
Republic Steel            145              41 1/8           103 7/8
Studebaker                151              37 3/4           113 1/4
Transcontinental Oil      62 5/8           5 5/8            57
U. S. Food                91 3/8           2 3/8            88 5/8
U. S. Rubber              143 3/4          40 1/2           103 1/4


  Most all of the above stocks were still paying dividends
when they had declined 25 to 50 points from the top and
they no doubt looked attractive to a lot of people who bought
them either on margin or outright. How many men will
have the nerve to hold on when they see their capital shrink
from 50 to 75 per cent? Very few of them, and a man
would be a fool if he did.

 This is another proof that you must place a stop loss
order for your protection, because when a stock starts to go
against you, it certainly can go enough to cost you all of your
margin and exhaust your patience, causing you to sell out,
probably just at a time when you should buy.
42

  I have not picked 1919 as an exception of a Bull market
or 1920 and 1921 as exceptional Bear years, because they
are not. These same kind of declines have occurred in
1857, 1873, 1893, 1896, 1903, 1904, 1907, 1910, 1914,
and 1917, and they certainly will occur again. Therefore,
be a Bear in a Bear market and a Bull in a Bull market.

 Don’t forget the fact that when stocks start to go against
you, they can go a long way in either direction, and that the
man who buys outright near the top and thinks he is safe,
or the man who sells short near the bottom and puts up 50
points margin and thinks it is enough, can both be wiped out.

  You might argue that a man who buys outright in panic
years near the bottom is perfectly safe and doing the right
thing. My answer is that the man who buys on margin at
the bottom of a panic is just as safe and can make more
money because he can carry more stock and I intend to teach
you how to tell when stocks reach top or bottom.


                         SELLING SHORT

 I am not going to tell you that it pays to sell short; I
am going to prove it to you by indisputable records covering
over thirty years of market movements.

  A lot of people trade in the market for years and never
seem to realize that there are two sides to it. I have often
heard people remark when stocks were declining fast, “I
can not sell short.” The man who is a born Bull, chronic
to the core, will never succeed; neither will a chronic Bear
succeed any better. You must have no sentiment in the way
you make money in the market. Your aim and object should
be to make profits and you should have no choice of how you
make them, whether it be on the buying or selling side. The
Royal Road to Success is to be a Bear in a Bear market and
a Bull in a Bull market.

  If you only trade on the Bull side of the market, you
have 50 per cent more against you than if you trade on both
sides. What chance has a Bull in Bear years or years of
panic and depression? He may buy near the bottom of a
break, but unless he grabs profits quick, he will soon have
losses; while the Bear who sell stocks short on every rally,
                                                                    43

covers them on the breaks and waits for rallies to sell again,
is sure to pile up big profits because he is going with the
trend, which you must always do.

  Study the charts and convince yourself that at the right
time there is just as much money on the short side as there
is on the long side. Then make up your mind, if you expect
to succeed, that you will sell short when conditions warrant.

  Your friends, brokers, and the newspapers tell you that
it is dangerous to sell short; that there might be a “corner.”
The chances for a corner in a stock are about one in a
thousand. There have been only two important corners in
the last 30 years, -- Northern Pacific was cornered in 1901,
when it went from 150 to 100o per share; Stutz Motors was
cornered in 1920 and advanced from around 200 to around
700.

  Stocks are made to sell and the insiders sell them near
the tops just as fast as they can. You are always safe in
doing what the insiders do. Stocks with large capitalization
are perfectly safe to sell short, because there is a large float-
ing supply of stock and it is impossible to corner them.

  The newspapers tell you what the insiders want you to
know, not what you need to know. Watch the newspapers.
When things are the worst and it is time to buy stocks, they
never tell you anything about the good times that are coming,
but when stocks are top and the insiders want to unload all
they bought at the bottom, the newspapers tell you about
dividends, extra dividends, melons, rights, and large earn-
ings, when they should tell you that you are picking “lemons”
and are getting “wrongs” not rights on your stock.

 A wise man does not expect something good for nothing,
and only fools expect the fellow who is on the inside of the
game, playing against them, to tell them what he is doing.

  The sentiment among brokers is always bullish near the
top and bearish near the bottom. The average broker knows
no more about the market than you do, and there is no reason
why he should. His business is to buy and sell stocks for
commissions. That is the way he makes his money, and a
broker who does this well earns all you pay him. His busi-
ness is too confusing. He hears too much on both sides of
the market to make his judgment any good.
44

 In December, 1920, when stocks were declining rapidly
on two-million share days, the newspapers told you about
high money, frozen credits, depression in business, unemploy-
ment, buying power reduced, people unable to buy luxuries,
automobiles, etc. At this time Studebaker sold at 37 3/4,
which was the bottom. It steadily advanced, and not much
was said about it until it got above 100.

  Now, for several months past, every few days the news-
papers tell you about the wonderful earnings of Studebaker.
Tips are all around Wall Street that Studebaker is going to
175 or 200 a share. Why tell the outsider all this good
news now after Studebaker is up nearly 100 points, and what
will be the story told to the suckers who buy the stock at
present levels, when it again sells down around 50 or 6o,
which it will in the latter part of 1923 or 1924? It is the
writer’s opinion that the man who sells Studebaker and pays
the dividend for the next year will make more money than
the people who buy it and get the dividends. This applies
to other stocks as well as Studebaker.


                       PYRAMIDING PROFITS

  Many a trader has begun at the bottom of a Bull market
to trade conservatively and accumulated a large amount of
profits. Finally he begins to pyramid too heavily and too
fast near the top, with the result that when the trend turns
he gets caught overloaded and loses all the profits he has
made and probably a lot of his capital. Sad experience has
taught me that it is better to be safe than sorry. In specula-
tion let “safety first” be your motto.

  In trading, your first risk should be your greatest. Sup-
pose on your first trade you risk 5 points, which, if lost,
comes out of your capital. We will assume that the stock
moves 5 points in your favor. You can then buy a second
lot and place a stop loss order 5 points away, and if it is
caught, you will still be only loser 5 points, because you will
be even on your first trade.

  Pyramiding all depends on where you get in on a stock, --
whether near the bottom when a move starts upward or near
the top when it starts downward. On active stocks, as a
                                                               45

rule, it is safe to pyramid every 10 points up or down, but
you should decrease your trades and never increase them.

  Suppose your first trade is 100 shares and the market
advances 10 points; then you buy 50 shares and it advances
10 points more; you buy 30 shares and it advances 10 points
more; you buy 20 shares and it advances 10 points more,
and you buy 10 shares. After that every 10 points up you
buy 10 shares more. In this way, if you follow up with a
stop loss order, your profits will always increase while your
risk will decrease. Your last trade may show a loss of 3
to 5 points according to how you get out on stop loss orders,
but all of your other trades will show big profits. It is
always safer to pyramid after a stock moves out of accumula-
tion or distribution zones.

  Learn to adhere strictly to a rule or do not follow it at
all. One thing you must not overlook, that every time a
stock moves in your favor 5 or 10 points, the chances against
it moving further in your favor have decreased. This does
not mean that the stock will not go a long way in your favor,
but it is the percentage against you that must not be over-
looked.


                BUYING AND SELLING ON A SCALE

  Many investors and traders have the idea that the only
successful way to trade is to buy or sell on a scale up or down.
I have never yet seen a scale method that would beat the
market. Some one asked Russell Sage if he believed in buy-
ing on a scale. He said that there were only three men who
had money enough to buy on a scale, -- Carnegie, Morgan
and Rockefeller, and they had more sense than to do it.

  A scale method will not work for the reason that you
add to your holdings when the market is going against you,
thus increasing your risk. If the market is going against you
on the first trade and it looks like you are in wrong, the thing
to do is to get out quickly and not buy or sell more. The
time to take additional risk is when the market is moving
in your favor, as shown in my pyramiding plan. It is all
right to buy or sell more if you are doing it when you are
making profits, but when you are trying to average, with
46

losses piling up against you, you are sure to make a serious
mistake, which will sooner or later cost all of your capital.


                        HEDGING IN STOCKS

 Traders who buy a stock of one group and it starts to
move against them, figure that they can even up by hedging
or selling something short in another group. This very sel-
dom pays. It is much better to take a loss and take it quickly
on the trade that is going against you, and start a new deal.

  There are some instances, or have been in the past, where
rails and industrials spread apart and then come together
again, but to make a play of this kind requires a long period
of time. For example:

  In November, 1919, when 20 industrial stocks were sell-
ing on an average of 119, the Dow-Jones 20 rails were
selling at 82, the industrials being 37 points higher than the
rails. The writer figured that the industrials would sell
lower than the rails within two years, which they did. In
August, 1921, the rails were selling at 70 and the industrials
at 66, the rails being 4 points higher than the industrials,
or a difference of 41 points in favor of the rails in 21 months.

  Of course, a trader who sold the high-priced industrial
stocks short and bought rails, even at the top in 1919, would
have made money, but this is not the way to trade, for the
rails declined about 18 points while industrials were declining
55 points.

  Therefore, the proper way to trade would have been to
keep short of industrials as long as the trend was down, and
not do any hedging. The great fundamental rule that you
must learn in order to be a success is to follow the trend of
the market. If you can not determine a definite trend, get
out and wait until you can. You can always make plenty of
money after the trend is well defined.


                    FAILURE TO FOLLOW RULES

  The long swings in the stock market last on an average
of two years, or approximately 6oo market days. If you
stand at the ticker and watch the fluctuations, it will make
                                                               47

you change your mind 1200 times in two years. Ninety per
cent of the time you will be wrong, because you are not
changing your mind for any good sound reason, but simply
because a minor move, which may last but a few hours or a
few days, has changed the appearance of the position of the
stock to the man who views it from short range, standing
over the ticker.

  Every time you change your mind and change your posi-
tion, you increase the percentage against you, because you
are paying taxes, interest and commission. If you get in
wrong, the ticker will keep you wrong because it will make
some minor moves every few hours or every few days that
will renew your hope and keep you in. On the other hand,
if you are in right, and are watching the ticker daily, some
of these minor moves that mean nothing will get you out
and you will lose a good position. Then, you must realize
that you have very little chance to make any money watching
a ticker, changing your mind and being wrong 90 per cent
of the time.

  The stock tape moves in mysterious ways the multitude
to deceive, because the public are influenced by their hopes
and fears. They sell on fear and buy on hope, thus getting
in or out near the top or bottom, while the man who trades
on some well-defined plan buys when the public sells and
sells when the public buys. The stock market does not beat
you. You beat yourself by following your own weaknesses,
by listening to the man who knows less than you know, by
reading the newspapers, following the gossip of the Street,
all of which is put out to influence you in the wrong direction.

  When the average trader comes to Wall Street he is
looking for information. He asks the bootblack “What do
you think of the market?” He also inquires of the waiter
in the hotels, the office boy, his broker, friends and strangers
around the broker’s office. I am conservative when I say
that the average floating trader asks the opinion of 10 to 12
people every day, most of whom are all guessers and know
no more about the market than he does. If their opinions
agree with his, he considers it good information and follows
it, and of course, loses money. If half of the people he talks
to disagree with him, he probably does not act on his own
48

judgment, and later finds that it was right. He says to him-
self “If I had only bought when I intended to, I would have
made money, but I talked it over with the broker and the
boys, and they convinced me that I was wrong.”

  “A wise man changes his mind, and a fool never.” A
wise man also investigates and then decides; a fool just
decides. The man who is fixed in his opinions on stocks,
either a born Bull or Bear, will never make any money. A
man must always be of open mind, ready to change his mind
and act quickly when he finds that there is a good reason to
do so. In Wall Street the man who does not change his mind
will very shortly have no “change” to mind.

 I know of a trader now in Wall Street who is an old
man, probably eighty years of age. He has made several
small fortunes in his day and some of his big profits were
made when he got in stocks that moved quickly 50 to 100
points. After that, he would lose all of the money that he
had made, trying to catch another move where he could make
50 to 100 points quickly.

  This man had been broke for several years prior to 1915.
When the great war boom started, he got hold of a few
hundred dollars capital and started buying stocks and
pyramiding. He got in at the right time, on the right stocks,
i.e., he bought near the bottom; stocks began to advance and
he began to pyramid. He bought Baldwin below 50, Crucible
Steel below 40, Beth. Steel below 50, Studebaker below 60.
He was fortunate enough to get into the real “war babies.”

  He was trading in odd lots in the beginning and when
the market reached top in the fall of 1915, he was carrying
thousands of shares. His equity with the broker was over
$200,000. I said to him “Now is the time to turn your
paper profits into cash.” At that time Baldwin showed him
over 100 points’ profit, Crucible over 100 points and Beth.
Steel several hundred points’ profit on his original trades.
But he had gotten so bullish and so full of hope that he
thought everybody was crazy and that every stock on the
list was going to be a Beth. Steel and go up to 700.

 I remember one day in October, 1915, when Baldwin
advanced to 154, which was the top, and the market was
very wild and excited. I said to him “Now either sell out
                                                                  49

all of your stocks or protect your profits with close stop loss
orders.” He said “Stocks haven’t started to go up good
yet” and he gave me an order to buy 500 more Baldwin.
He said “I am going to sell Baldwin around 250, not 150.”
That afternoon Baldwin declined to 130, and all of his other
stocks in proportion, but he held on and hoped. Stocks con-
tinued to go down, and in a few months Baldwin was back
around 100 and he was forced to sell out his big line of
stocks, and his profits of $200,000 were reduced to where
his account showed less than $1o,ooo.

  Now, where is the mistake with this kind of trading?
This man saw the opportunity at the right time. He bought
small amounts of stocks at the right time and he pyramided
right. But he failed to get out at the right time. A profit
is never a profit so long as it is on paper. It must be turned
into cash. This man refused to see the market as it really
was. He was so bullish that he could not believe a 20 or
30-point reaction showed that the trend had turned, at least
temporarily. Once a man has a profit and protects it with
a stop loss order, he knows that that much money is safe
and he is sure to get it, but if he holds on and hopes, and
increases his buying at the top, he is sure to lose.

  This man, after making and losing money, again went
broke in 1917, and as yet has not come back, because he is
getting too old, and he is too hopeful. To this day, he will
listen to the advice of any clerk in a broker’s office or, in
fact, anyone around a brokerage office, who will tell him of
a stock that is going up 1oo points, and he will believe it.
Why? Because he hopes to get in again on a stock that will
go up 100 points or more, pyramid it and make a fortune.
If you tell him that you know of a stock that is sure to go
up 5 or 10 points, he will pay no attention to you. He is not
interested in making 5 or 10 points. He wants to make 100.

  Some people never learn by experience. This man has
been trading ever since before the Civil war, and in over
50 years has not learned that abnormal markets, where prices
advance over 50 to 100 points in a few months, occur only
three or four times in a lifetime. He is expecting things to
happen every year which experience should have taught him
are not likely to happen more than once in 20 years. He
50

does not see that markets are normal most of the time,
and fluctuate in a normal way. Therefore he does not reason
right or do any sound thinking. He works on an exaggerated
bump of hope, and of course, meets with disappointments
and losses.

  You must always learn that normal profits must be ac-
cepted in normal markets, and in abnormal times you can
try for abnormal profits, but protect your trades whether
they show profits or not, with stop loss orders, and be ready
to change your mind when conditions change.
                            CHAPTER X

                  CHARTS AND THEIR USE
                               _______

          WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW ABOUT A STOCK

  It is all well enough to know the history of a company,
whether it is old or new, its earnings over a long period of
years, how long it has paid dividends and its future pros-
pects; also whether it is over-capitalized or whether the capi-
talization is conservative or not. But all of the information
that affects the future price of the stock is contained in its
fluctuations and you need nothing more than its record of
prices.

  A lot of people say that charts are of no value in deter-
mining the future; that they simply represent past history.
That is correct; they are records of the past, but the future
is nothing but a repetition of the past. Every business man
goes on the past record of business in determining how to
buy goods for the future. He can only judge by comparison
with past records. We look up the record of a man, and
if his past has been good, we judge that his future will be
good.

  Charts are simply a picture, which show plainer than we
can convey in words. The same thing could be told in words,
but you grasp it quicker when you see it in chart form. You
would recognize a man and his good or bad qualities quicker
from seeing his photograph than from reading a description
of him.

  I want no better authority on anything than the Bible.
“The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that
which is done, is that which shall be done; and there is no
new thing under the sun.” This shows that history is but
a repetition of the past and that charts are the only guide

                                   51
52

we have of what stocks have done and by which we may
determine what they will do.

  If a machine instead of a human being made the market,
then it might be different, but to those of us who know how
to read the signs of what the manipulators are doing and of
what they intend to do, charts and past records are of great
value.

  Therefore, you should have a chart of monthly high and
low prices as far back as you can get them; then a chart of
weekly high and low prices anywhere from 6 to 12 months
back, and last a chart of daily high and low prices 30 to 6o
days back. This will show you what the tape tells about
the past, present and future condition of the stock. If the
indications are not clear, you will have to wait a little while
until the tape shows which way the balance of power lies and
whether supply or demand is equal or one is overbalancing.


                               VOLUME

  Do not overlook the volume of sales, for this is what
tells whether supply or demand is strong enough to move the
stock up or down. Consider the daily, weekly, and monthly
volume of sales according to the total amount of stock out-
standing. For instance:

  If you look up U. S. Steel for the last three months of
1922, you will find that it was in a narrow range for several
weeks and the total sales only 300,000 shares. You can not
expect any big movement will take place either way imme-
diately. Why? Because there are five million shares of
U. S. Steel and one million or more shares must change hands
before any big move will take place from any resistance level.
The greater the volume of stock the longer the time required
to accumulate or distribute a line sufficient to cause a long
swing move up or down.


                       WHAT VOLUME TELLS

  The volumes of sales on each individual stock show the
percentage that is being bought and sold. That is why the
tape and fluctuations tell the truth, provided you interpret
                                                             53

the tape correctly. Certainly a stock cannot be distributed
or accumulated without a large volume of sales. Some one
must buy and sell a large per cent of the capital stock near
bottom or top in order to cause a big move in either direction.
Therefore, study volume closely, the time required to sell a
large amount of stock, the number of points which it moves
up or down while the volume of sales is accumulating.

  Suppose U. S. Steel has advanced 20 or 30 points, and
it reaches a level where there are 200,000 shares in one day,
but the stock only gains one point. The next day there are
200,000 shares and it makes no gain. This is plain enough
that at this point the supply of stock exceeds the demand, or
at least that buyers are able to get all the stock they want
without bidding prices up. In a case of this kind, the wise
thing to do is to sell out, watch and wait. If all the stock
at this level is absorbed after a reasonable length of time,
and it moves up to new high prices, it will then, of course,
indicate still higher.

  In a big bull market, when stocks reach the distributing
zone, they will fluctuate over a wide range and the volume
of sales will run several times the total outstanding capital
stock. For instance: In the latter part of 1919 and spring
of 1920, Baldwin Loco. sales ran from 300,000 to 500,000
shares per week, while the stock was fluctuating between 130
and 156. This was when distribution was taking place, and
the public was full of hope and buying regardless of price.

  After that, a long decline started and Baldwin reacted
to 62 3/8 during the week ending June 25, 1921. It was down
93 points from the high of 1919. During the last week of
the decline, it went down from 70 to 62 3/8, over seven points,
and the total sales for the week were less than 110,000,
which showed that liquidation had about run its course and
that there was very little stock pressing for sale. The amount
of sales at this time in one week were about half of the
capital stock and probably about as much as the floating
supply, while when the stock was nearly 100 points higher,
the capital stock was changing hands about twice each week.

  After Baldwin reached the low level of 62 3/8 in June,
1921, notice it began to rally on small volume, which showed
that there was not much stock for sale and that it did not
54

require heavy buying to put it up. The supply of stock in
the hands of the public having passed into strong hands, it
was easy to start the advance in this stock which continued
until it reached 142 in October, 1922, where distribution
again took place. This is how volume shows you when
accumulation or distribution is taking place.
                            CHAPTER XI

              THE SEVEN ZONES OF ACTIVITY
 The stock market can be divided into seven Zones which
determine the different stages of activity. There are three
Zones above normal and three below.

  The Normal Zone represents something near actual in-
trinsic value, as far as human judgment can be depended
upon and as far as the ticker tape can analyze it from supply
and demand. The line marked “normal” we consider as a
place where buying and selling is about equal and fluctuations
are very narrow, there being no incentive or reason apparent
for any wild speculation up or down. Either accumulation
or distribution may take place around the Normal Zone.
Investment stocks or gilt-edge bonds may start downward
from this zone, while speculative issues, which have prospects
or exaggerated hopes of big earnings, may start up from
this zone.

  The First Zone above Normal marks the period of quiet
advancing prices which attracts very little attention. This
zone may last one month, three months, six months or a year,
according to the cycle the market is passing through in
general conditions, because from Normal to the Third Zone
at one time may be reached in twelve months and at another
time may not be reached for five or ten years, viewing the
market from a long swing standpoint.

  The Second Zone above Normal marks a period of
greater activity when pools begin marking up stocks. You
will hear reports of better business and the public will become
interested in the market and buy on a small scale, but most
people will wait for a reaction back to Zone I to buy. Of
course, this reaction seldom ever comes.

 The Third Zone or highest above Normal marks a
period of distribution. In this zone great activity takes place

                                   55
56

and extremely wide fluctuations. Stocks are very feverish;
the public buy madly; reports of big earnings come in;
dividends are increased and stock dividends declared. Every-
thing is optimistic. Prominent men talk of the greatest pros-
perity ever known. Weeks and months go by and stocks
continue to advance. Reactions are very small. People who
wait for reactions become discouraged and buy at the market
at any price. You hear of fortunes being made by the office
boys, the bootblack, bookkeepers, stenographers. Every-
body is rolling in wealth and all of them are dreaming of
fortunes yet to be made. Most of the fortunes that they
are counting on, of course, is paper profits. They have not
yet cashed in, and not 10 per cent of them ever do cash in
at this stage of the game. They get too full of hope to sell.
This stage of the market occurred from August until the end
of October, 1919. Many of my readers know what hap-
pened to them.

  In this stage, for weeks and months, every few days
stocks will open up anywhere from 1 to 5 points higher and
keep on going up without much reaction. After this has
happened and the end is near, although no one can see it,
traders all go home some night, hopeful with the sky clear
and not a sign of disturbing cloud, and come down next
morning and find stocks opening off anywhere from 1 to 5
points. There may be no news out or any reason at all for
the decline, but the real cause of it is that the market has
reached the stage where Supply exceeds Demand. Every-
body has bought to full capacity and there not being any
large amount of buying orders in at the opening to support
prices, they open off. This is your first sign of the end.
Take warning! Get from under, for with this first lightning
strike, you may know that the storm is gathering, and it
behooves you to protect yourself. After this first sign of
the end, stocks may go lower for a while and then rally up
near the high points and hold for a time, but it is the warning
that the “saturation point” is about reached, and the wise
man will get out in time.

  The history of the world shows that there never has been
a time when there was a great demand for anything, whether
it be a product of the mine, factory, or farm, that sooner or
                                                               57

later, a supply in excess of that demand did not develop.
Just as soon as any business becomes profitable enough for
a few men to make big money, enough people will get into
it to cause overproduction and force prices down. This is
but a natural law. It is caused by the weakness of human
flesh and it applies to the stock market the same as to any
other business. When stock prices reach this third zone
above normal, fluctuations are so wide and rapid that for-
tunes or big profits can be made very quickly. This attracts
all classes of people to the market. They buy and continue
to buy, and prices continue to rise until somebody from the
inside, outside, top side or bottom side, supplies the demand,
and the whole crowd find themselves at the saturation point
loaded with stocks, looking for a buyer, and he is not there.
Then follows the deluge back to Normal and on down to
the final and third stage below normal.

  The First Zone below Normal is marked by a quiet
decline from high prices and what might be termed the first
bad shake-out of the weak holders. A rally follows but
stocks become dull on the rally because the Supply is still
greater than the Demand and distribution is still going on.
A lot of people who miss the market in the third stage above
normal are wise enough to sell out in the first stage down,
and professional traders, seeing that the bull market has
terminated, go short of the market on every rally with the
result that prices begin to work lower slowly.

  The Second Zone below Normal. -- Liquidation increases,
breaks become bigger and rallies smaller; reports of falling
off in business come to light and a more conservative spirit
underlies general conditions. People are less hopeful, be-
come more conservative and stop buying. The result is that
the market is without much support and gradually works
lower.

  The Third and final Zone below Normal is exactly the
opposite of the third zone above. It marks a period of
panicky conditions, extreme pessimism; investors lose con-
fidence and start selling out. There is great excitement
throughout the country and reports of poor business;
dividends are passed or reduced and even the men who were
optimistic at the top, now begin to sound a word of caution
58

and hint that things may get worse before they get better.
The supply of stocks seems unlimited; everybody is a seller;
no one wants to buy. You hear people say that they are not
worth the paper they are written on. They are talking about
the same stocks that they bought 50 to 100 points higher.
When this stage is reached, it is the time to cover shorts and
buy stocks when nobody wants them. In this stage, it may
be necessary to watch and wait for several months until you
see that liquidation has been completed and that accumula-
tion is taking place, as there is always plenty of time to buy
after the quiet advance starts. Remember, it is always dark-
est just before dawn, and it is always brightest at noontime,
just before the sun starts to recede.
                           CHAPTER XII

                      HABITS OF STOCKS

  The stock market is driven by human energy, i.e., prices
are made through buying and selling of human beings, and
as human beings have certain habits, certainly the market
or the individual stocks reveal the habits and methods of the
men who make markets. You should become thoroughly
acquainted with the stocks you trade in, and by studying them,
you will learn their individual moves which are peculiar to
themselves. This is caused, as I have explained elsewhere,
by a certain group of men or pools that operate in a stock
for a long number of years.

  Investigate and learn all you can about the stock that
you trade in before you make a trade, not afterward. Study
the number of points each individual stock makes in its moves
up or down. Note carefully the volume of sales on which
it culminates in major or minor moves. Note whether it
makes it bottoms or tops by a very fast run up or by a slow,
creeping movement. Some stocks make sharp tops and bot-
toms, some make round tops, other make square tops, some
make double tops and bottoms, some make triple tops and
bottoms, while others only make the single, or sharp top
and bottom. By a double or triple top I mean a stock reach-
ing a certain level, then having a big reaction and moving up
to the same high level a second or third time, and vice versa.


              TOPS AND BOTTOMS-FLAT OR SHARP

  Stocks are no different than human beings -- they have
their peculiar habits and moves. It is just as easy to tell
what a stock will do by getting acquainted with it and watch-
ing its moves over a long period of time, as it is to tell what

                                   59
60

a human being will do under certain conditions after you
have known him for many years. Remember that stock
market movements are made by human beings; therefore
they reflect what the human mind thinks and reveal the
actions, desires, hopes, wishes and aims of the men who
manipulate special groups of stocks that they are inter-
ested in.

  Stocks do not all move alike. Some are leaders, others
are laggards; some are fast movers, some slow movers.

  The stocks that lead and reach top first make what we
call on a chart flat tops -- that is, they reach a level and
remain there for several weeks or months, fluctuating up or
down over a wide or narrow range according to the kind of
a stock, but never getting much above the level where dis-
tribution started. These stocks, of course, are the first to
lead a decline when a bear market starts.

  The stocks which are late movers and start their advance
after the general market is about top are rushed up fast and
make what is known as a sharp top. They do not remain
long at top levels, but decline quickly, because the general
market has already turned downward, and, of course, the
late mover, which is going against the trend, must naturally
meet with greater selling pressure at high levels than the
stock which is already down considerably from the top.

  Then the question might be asked, “Where does distribu-
tion take place in stocks that make sharp tops?”

  They are distributed as they run up and are also sold
on the way down. After making a sharp top, they usually
break back 10, 20 or 30 points and then halt. At this level
most people think they are down too much to sell short and
have reacted enough to be good purchases; therefore they
buy them. In a case of this kind, distribution often takes
place 20 or 30 points below the top in the late movers, while
the stocks which lead the advance are distributed within 5 to
10 points of the top.

  The leaders make the same level many times, some stocks
as much as 10 or 15 times, while the late mover is more of
a volcanic eruption. It shoots up to the top and never makes
the same high price the second time, because when the ex-
plosive buying power is over, it recedes quickly to a level
                                                                  61

that might be termed semi-normal. It is a quick recession
from high temperature.


               TIME REQUIRED FOR DISTRIBUTION

  The time required to distribute stocks depends upon the
stock, the amount of shares outstanding, general conditions
and how well the stock is known or advertised among the
public.

  For instance: In a market like 1919, when trading aver-
aged two million shares per day for over sixty days, it would
be easier to distribute a million shares of stock in sixty days
when the public were all wild and madly bullish, buying
everything in sight, than it would be to distribute them in
one year’s time in a normal market. When stocks reach a
level where distribution is taking place, they make rapid
moves up and down. There is a large volume of trading
and both short selling and buying is taking place. People
are attracted to the stock that makes fast moves up or down,
because there are great opportunities for making money.

  People once convinced about a thing remain convinced
for a long time. For example: A stock moves from 120 to
150 seven or eight different times -- that is, every time it
comes down around 120 it rushes up again to 140 and 150.
The public finally become convinced that every time it gets
down around 120 it is a sure buy for quick profits. Now,
eventually, after the stock has been thoroughly distributed,
it declines to 120 and fails to rally. Everybody is long of it,
holding on and hoping. It goes down 10, 30, 40, or 50
points, until investors and traders become disgusted, scared
and sell out.

  Some of the surest signs of distribution are fast moves
up and down on large volume, increased dividends, stock
dividends and special privileges to stockholders, which really
is the bait that catches the sucker and in the end causes a
big loss.


        MISJUDGING THE TIME OF ACCUMULATION OR
                   DISTRIBUTION

  It requires different lengths of time in various stages of
the market to accumulate or distribute stocks. A pool may
62

form in the early part of the year and buy a large amount
of stock, expecting a spring rise. The advance comes in
April or May, and the pool sells out, distributing its line of
stock to the public. A break occurs in June or July and the
public gets scared and sells out the stocks they bought at the
top. Then this same pool, or another one, buys back the
stocks, and another advance comes. This may go on for
three or four different times with the stock being distributed
at the different stages, which are only minor periods of dis-
tribution, and finally when the extreme high or final zone of
distribution is reached and everybody is so bullish, the stock
is distributed for a long bear campaign.

  The same occurs on the way down. The market halts
and holds at one level for some time, then rallies, where the
bears put out a line of shorts and the stock continues down-
ward, going through two or three different stages of liquida-
tion before the final stage is reached where accumulation
takes place for another big bull campaign. This is all fully
shown on the Charts Nos. 11 and 12, showing the different
tops and bottoms on the Averages of the railroad and indus-
trial stocks.

  Bull or bear markets all move in sections of three to
four waves up or down, individual stocks working out their
high or low points according to their Time factor and in-
dividual vibrations. See chart on Industrial Alcohol which
shows the different levels or sections on the way down. Each
resistance level might have been considered a bottom, but it
was only a temporary bottom, as it shows plainly that it
failed to make higher tops on each succeeding rally.

  Many stocks will halt near the end of a bull or bear cam-
paign and make a level which looks like accumulation or
distribution, and appears to be the final top or bottom, but
if the public buy heavily, or shorts all cover around a level
of this kind, there may be built up, even at a very high or
very low level, a weak long or short interest which will cause
a final drive making the final top or bottom, as the case
may be.

 Often when stocks are nearing final top, professional
shorts will put out a big line of short stocks; then something
will occur to cause them to get scared and start to cover,
                                                               63

and their buying, together with public buying, will force
prices to a level a little higher than previous tops, all of
which is plainly shown on the charts Nos. 11 and 12 on Rails
and Industrials. This rule is also fully explained in the
example given in regard to Retail Stores and its bottom of
December, 1920, and the next bottom February and March,
1921.


                        RESISTANCE LEVELS

  Before you start trading in any stock, get a chart on it
for several years back, if you can. Study it closely. Note
the levels at which bottoms and tops have been made. Find
out where its previous resistance points have been made.
Then you will be able to determine whether you are entering
the market at a safe or dangerous level.

  Suppose in 1921 you wished to buy a railroad stock which
paid a good dividend and had prospects of advancement.
We will presume that you made up a chart on New York
Central from 1896 to date. (See Chart No. 5.) Now
read about New York Central under chapter “How to Tell
the Stocks that are in the Strongest Position.” Thus you
will see that by having a record of stocks, you get acquainted
with their movements and are able to know whether you are
buying near the top or bottom of a move.

  Suppose you make up a chart of a stock and find that it
has advanced from $10 a share to $50 and is selling at
$40. This would not be a safe place to buy, because it is
too close to the high price and too far away from the low
price. Of course, this does not mean that many stocks which
have reacted from $50 to $40 are not good purchases. I
am merely giving you an example of a place of safety in
buying or selling. No matter whether it is a small move
or a large move, before you buy or sell you should wait until
the stock shows that it is meeting with resistance one way
or the other. Always remember that you should have a
reason for making a trade. Do not buy or sell on hope;
that is pure gambling and gamblers always lose sooner or
later.
64


 WHEN TO BUY OR SELL AFTER EXTREME TOPS OR BOTTOMS

  The way to tell when to buy or sell after stocks are away
from extreme tops or bottoms is to watch reactions and
rallies. The average stock reacts 5 to 7 points, sometimes
10; low priced stocks 2 to 3 points.

  Watch the time required to complete major or minor
moves. In very active markets stocks will seldom react more
than two days or the third day they will sell higher. Buy
on the second day’s reaction and stop three points.

 If stocks get dull or narrow near bottom or top, wait for
activity, then buy or sell.

  After a stock has held below a top or bottom for two
weeks or more, gets active and makes a new high or low,
then buy or sell as soon as it gets active in new territory.


              GETTING IN WHEN THE MOVE STARTS

  Many people see a stock start advancing and wait for a
reaction on which to buy. The reaction does not come and
they get left. Reactions, cross-currents and reverse moves
take place during the accumulation stage. When this is com-
pleted and the stock moves up out of the accumulation zone,
it does not react much. Why? Because the insiders have
bought all of the stock that they want and their next objective
point is to move it up to the distributing level where they
can start to sell. They do not come back to let you or anyone
else get on once the move starts.

 He who hesitates in Wall Street is lost. Therefore when
you see a stock starting to move, if it is very active and the
volume of sales large, do not wait; buy at the market.

  The same rule applies to selling. When once a stock
breaks out of the distribution zone, if you are long of it, sell
out at the market and go short. There is no use holding
on and hoping. The stock is not going to move back to a
high level just to let you sell out, no more than the 20th
Century train will back up to the Grand Central station to
let one passenger get on after it is twenty miles out. You
must get on when they holler “All Aboard” or you are left,
and this certainly applies to the stock market.
                                                                   65

 Of course, you must study the stocks and be able to
determine when these big moves start. As a rule, when
accumulation or distribution is finished and the move is under
way, you can make more money in one to two months’ time,
while the run is on, than you can trading for the narrow
swings in six months’ time.


            NARROW FLUCTUATIONS AND DULLNESS

  Markets nearly always culminate at the top of Bull move-
ments with wide fluctuations and large volumes of sales,
which may keep up over several months, finally culminating
with several days of two to three million shares. When these
signs come, take warning, for the end is near.

  Bear markets, which are very rapid and fast, also wind
up with wide fluctuations and large volumes of sales. For
instance: On December 22, 1920, stocks declined rapidly
and the volume of sales reached 3,000,000, which was the
largest day of the year. The market had been declining for
several weeks and the volume of sales had been running high.
This was the final culmination, from which a big rally started,
and many stocks have never sold lower than they sold on
that date.

  For many years when sales of two to three million have
occurred at top or bottom, it has always marked the turning
point one way or the other. When a stock or group of stocks
on Averages remains for a long time in a narrow range and
the volume of sales is small, it is a sign that either distribu-
tion or accumulation has run its course and the market is
getting ready to turn. After short weeks, months, or years,
watch which way the market turns and go with it.

  Averages. -- The range on Railroad stocks in 1921 was
only 11 points on Averages. The market was down to 66
on Averages against a high price of 138 in 1906. This was
the shortest year’s fluctuations since 1912 and indicated that
liquidation had run its course, because Railroad stocks be-
came very dead and inactive and everybody afraid to trade
in them. Then the upward move started.

  In comparing the position of Railroad stocks with Indus-
trial stocks, note on Chart No. 1 of Yearly Averages that
                                                                67

both Rails and Industrials made extreme low prices in 1896;
that Industrials made a higher bottom in 1903 and a still
higher bottom in the panic of 1907, and declined to the same
level in the 1914 depression; in 1917 made a still higher
level and in 1921 went only two points lower than the low
of 1917, while Railroad stocks declined below the level of
every year, except 1898.

  This shows that Industrials were receiving better support
and were in position to advance faster than Rails. They
have advanced 40 points on Averages from the low point
of 1921, while Rails have advanced only 27 points. This
is the way to compare the Averages of different groups or
individual stocks to determine the ones that are in the weak-
est or strongest position.

  Many stocks when they reach low levels and accumula-
tion is taking place remain in a very narrow range for many
months, but once they break out of this range, great activity
develops and you should watch the trend and go with it. For
example:

  Mexican Pete. -- In 1918 advanced to 98 in February;
reacted to 90. Traded between 98 and 90 until May, 1918;
then advanced to 102. Reacted to 91 ; advanced to 102
again in June; then reacted to 96; advanced to 103 in July;
then in the month of August traded in a range from 100 to
102, only two points, which was the shortest month of fluc-
tuations in its history. This short month of extreme dullness
at the top of an advance showed that accumulation was
taking place and that the insiders were simply waiting, giving
everybody an opportunity to sell all the stock they would and
to encourage a big short interest before starting the big
advance.

  Therefore, this showed that it was getting ready for a
big move one way or the other. In September it reacted to
98, then advanced to 104, which was above all previous tops
since January, 1917. The advance continued, with only small
reactions, until the stock reached 194 in October, 1918. It
reacted to 146 and continued to make higher bottoms until
it finally reached 264 in October, 1919.
                          CHAPTER XIII

             DIFFERENT CLASSES OF STOCKS
                              _______

                DOES IT PAY TO BUY NEW STOCKS?

  When companies are first organized and their stocks are
listed on the Curb or New York Stock Exchange, they are
held by the insiders or people who form the companies and
sell stocks in order to carry on the business. Therefore, they
are distributed to the public. While they may advance for
a short time after they are first brought out, the man who
buys and holds them is sure to have big losses, if not suffer
the loss of his entire capital before he sees a profit. For
example:

  U. S. Steel. -- In 1901 when the U. S. Steel Corporation
was organized, the common stock, of which there was 5,000,-
000 shares, was put on the market around 40. It advanced
to 55 and in less than 6o days, on May 9th, when the
Northern Pacific corner occurred, it declined to 24. The
highest it ever rallied after that was 48. It then slowly
declined until it reached 8 5/8 in the Spring of 1904. The
stock traded between 10 and 12 per share for nearly a year.
This was the time to buy because it showed that it had
reached a level where the insiders were supporting it and
taking back all the stock that they had sold in the 40’s.

  The stock did not get above 50 until 1908. Therefore,
the people who bought when it was first issued and held it
had to wait seven years before they were even on it. Besides,
over 75 per cent of their capital was wiped out when the
stock was near the bottom, and it takes a man with a lot of
nerve and a big bump of hope to hold a stock when it is that
much against him. This is one of the few stocks that did
come back and go higher after it was first distributed to the
public. Hundreds of others are either assessed or go out of
existence.

                                  68
                                                            69

  Transcontinental Oil. -- One more example of a stock
that cost the public millions of dollars in 1919. Transcon-
tinental Oil, which was placed on the market around 45 in
1919, advanced to 62 in November of that year. Hundreds
of people were induced to buy and were told that it would
go to 100 or higher. It started on its long decline because
the insiders had sold out to the public and there was no
support to the stock. In a little over twelve months, or in
December, 1920, it sold at 6, which would wipe out 90 per
cent of the capital if a man bought it outright anywhere near
the top.

  Make up a chart on this stock and study it. See how
it looks at the top and how it looks at the bottom. After
it sold at 6 in 1920, it advanced to 13 in April, 1921; then
declined to 6 in August, 1921, the stock becoming very in-
active, which showed that it had reached a level where the
selling was over, and somebody was buying it. It advanced
to 12 in December, 1921, which was one point lower than
the high price of April. Then declined again to 7 1/2 in
March, 1922, where it again became inactive and dull, show-
ing that there was support and that the stock was thoroughly
liquidated. This was the time to buy. The stock has since
advanced to 20 in May, 1922, and still shows upward trend.

  Transcontinental Oil was not the exception. Almost
every other new company which placed stock on the market
in the boom of 1919 declined in the same way. Always bear
in mind that new securities are floated in boom times when
everybody wants to buy and they are put out at high prices
so that they can be sold all the way down. Therefore, great
caution should be used in buying new stocks and you should
get out quickly when they start to decline and go short.

  Then, when you think stocks have reached bottom, wait
and give them plenty of time to show whether the Demand
is strong enough to give them permanent support or whether
they have reached temporary bottom, only to break out and
go lower a few months later. When stocks reach top or
bottom you do not have to be in a great hurry to get in or
out, as the insiders require a lot of time to accumulate all
of the stocks they want near the bottom and require time
to make a market to distribute them near the top.
70


               BUYING OLD OR SEASONED STOCKS

  It takes time, sometimes several years, to distribute a
large amount of stock and get it into the hands of investors
who will hold and not sell out when it advances or declines.
Therefore, the average stock is manipulated over a wide
range for many years, varying anywhere from five to ten
years, until investors absorb it all. After that if it is a fairly
good company with established earnings, it will fluctuate over
a narrow range, because the investors have it and there is no
manipulation in it.

  But remember one thing, that after a stock is in the hands
of investors there is no more money in it for the insiders
until such a time as they can start a scare and get investors
to sell out. This requires a long time, because investors who
have confidence in a stock and who have held it for several
years are slow to let go of it. As long as it pays dividends
they feel safe and hold on.

  Finally when it reaches lower levels than it has been for
a long time, heavier selling starts, and as there is no support
of any consequence, the stock declines rapidly until it reaches
a level where the wise manipulators are willing to buy it back
again. This is why it is often safer to sell a stock short when
it is down 50 points from the top than when it is only down
10, as all support has been withdrawn; everybody wants to
sell and no one wants to buy. I can cite you hundreds of
examples of this kind. A few will suffice.

  New Haven. -- This railroad had paid dividends of 4 to
10 per cent for about thirty years. The stock was in the
hands of investors and it started to decline. When it was
down from 280 to 200 it still paid dividends. Investors held
on because they thought it was all right. Later when it was
selling at 150 in 1911 it was still paying 8 per cent and in-
vestors were holding it because they felt that it was safe; it
had paid dividends so long.

  But the insiders who were out of it and had been selling
it short for many years, knew that the time was coming when
all the dividend would be passed. In 1913 the dividend was
reduced to 5 per cent and the stock declined to 66 on heavy
liquidation. The highest it ever rallied after that was 89
                                                                71

in 1915, the entire dividend being passed in 1914. A lot of
people who had held on and hoped did not sell out when
the dividend was passed, but as the stock slowly worked to
lower levels they lost hope and sold the stock for what they
could get, the result being that it declined to 12 in 1921.

  This shows that stocks are never so low but what they
can go lower and are never so high but what they can go still
higher. How many people would sell New Haven short at
50 a share when they knew it had sold as high as 279? Yet,
it was a safe short sale all the way down to 12. When con-
ditions change the price at which a stock has sold makes no
difference and you must play it as it is.

  Union Pacific. -- The same thing applies to selling stocks
short. A lot of people knowing that Union Pacific sold at
3 1/2 a share in 1896 and was assessed at $20 per share could
not realize that it could be worth 50 per share in 1899.
Therefore, they sold it short and went broke. In ten years
after it was assessed, it sold at 195 3/8 and paid 10 per cent
dividends. It went to 219 in 1909.

  Therefore, people who could not forget the low prices
at which the stock had sold and were not broad enough to
see the changed conditions brought about by E. H. Harri-
man, lost fortunes bucking the trend and selling it short
whereas if they had only gone with the trend instead of
against it, they could have made a fortune.

  Am. Sugar Refining. -- This was another stock which fluc-
tuated wildly for many years until the stock was distributed
and nearly all held by investors. Then it quieted down and
remained in a narrow range for many years. In 1919 its
dividend was increased to 10 per cent, the highest paid for
twenty years. Yet, in the big boom and extreme high prices
for sugar, the stock failed to advance anywhere near the high
prices at which it sold in 1898 to 1906, the years when it
was being manipulated and distributed.

  In 1921 the entire dividend was passed and the stock
declined to 47 5/8. Of course, everybody knows how quickly
the bottom fell out of the sugar market without warning,
but you might ask how the investor would know when to
sell out the stock to protect his investment. We will assume
that there was no indication or warning for him to sell out
72

in 1919 at high prices. But there must be some place when
a stock starts down where it will reach a level that shows
weakness and support withdrawn.

  In 1914, which was a panic year, the low price was 97;
in 1915 low 99 1/2; in 1916 low 104; 1917, another panic
year, low 89 1/8 ; 1918 low 98; 1919 low 111 1/4. Notice that
from 1914 to 1919 the stock was being supported around
97 and that in 1919 the low point was 111 1/4. Now, in
1920, when the stock sold early in the year at 142, every-
thing might have looked all right for it, but when it broke
through 111, the point at which it was supported in 1919,
and then declined below 98, the support in 1918, it certainly
was warning enough that support had been withdrawn and
that an investor should sell out. He certainly had an oppor-
tunity to buy it back again over 50 points lower if he
wanted to.

  Therefore, you see that you must be careful about buying
stocks when they are first listed and new, and must also be
careful about buying them after they have passed into the
hands of investors and have become stale after the company
is many years old. The time to make money trading for
fluctuations, or points of profit, is when stocks are in the
distributing stage, which lasts anywhere from one to five
years, sometimes longer. After that you must look for new
and more active stocks.

  Market movements are made by men and they represent
the activity and energy of human beings. A young boy is
more active, moves faster than an old man, but he makes
more mistakes, has more ups and downs. An old man when
once he starts down hill and old age gets a grip on him,
seldom ever rallies or comes up again. It is the same with
old stocks. Therefore, always play the favorites, the lead-
ing active stocks which have wide ranges of fluctuations and
are traded in in large volume on the New York Stock Ex-
change.


              SELLING LOW-PRICED STOCKS SHORT

 Always remember that every time somebody buys, some-
one else sells, and vice versa. Do not forget this fact -- that
                                                                  73

there is just as much stock when prices are low as when they
are high, and somebody always owns the existing capital
stock of a company. For example:

  U.S. Steel. -- When Steel sold at the lowest price in its
history, 8 5/8 in May, 1904, there were five million shares.
Again, when it sold at the highest price in its history, 136 5/8,
in May, 1917, there were still five million shares. Somebody
owned the five million shares when prices were the lowest,
and somebody owned the five million shares when they were
at the highest. It was the insiders who owned the stock at
the bottom, and the outsiders who bought it at the top, be-
cause it was paying 17 per cent dividend. While it was
paying no dividend, it sold at the lowest.

  A large percentage of the public buy low-priced stocks
for the reason that they think they will go down less and
hope that because they are low, they can go up high. This,
of course, is a false impression and not based on any sound
fundamental principle. Most of the time, when stocks sell
at low prices, they are not worth any more, probably less
than they are selling for. When they sell at high prices they
are worth what they are selling for or there is some reason
or cause for the high level of quoted value.

  Certain low-priced stocks always become favorites of the
public and they buy them, which enables the pools and in-
siders to sell them out. Then, of course, they go down,
because there is no support. The public having bought to
capacity, can not buy any more. Prices decline, and finally
the public, becoming disgusted, sell out near the bottom.
You can always make big profits by selling short low-priced
stocks that are favorites and in which there is a big long
interest. For example:

  Southern Railway. -- Was a great favorite with traders
throughout the South from 1901 to 1920. Every time this
stock advanced above 30, they would become very bullish,
hoping and expecting that it would advance to 50 or higher.
A chart of it will show you that it was a good short sale every
time the public bought it heavily.

  Erie is another stock that the public have always bought
on hope and there have often been big opportunities for sell-
ing it short at comparatively low levels, as it has always
74

declined until the public became disgusted and sold near the
bottom.

  The percentage of declines in low-priced stocks is often
greater than the declines in high-priced issues. Therefore,
the medium low-priced stocks are safer short sales because
they rally less.


                  BUYING HIGH-PRICED STOCKS

  When a stock starts to advance, say from around 100,
which is its normal level, it will meet with a lot of selling
every five to ten points up because people who think it is high
enough and have profits, sell out. If it continues to advance,
most all of the public will sell out. Then, the professionals
and the public will decide that it is too high and start to sell
short. They all look for a reaction, but it does not come.
The stock continues to advance until it reaches a level where
all the shorts have been so badly licked that they cover up
and quit.

  A lot of people after seeing a stock advance from 100
to 200 become convinced that it is never going to stop going
up and they buy. The result is that at a high level a weak,
long interest is built up, and the short interest run in, and,
of course, the stock eventually starts on a long decline. Often
people who believe a stock too high at 110 will think it cheap
enough at 18o, after it has reacted from 200. You can
always make money buying high-priced stocks when every-
body is getting out because they think they are high enough
for a reaction.

  This is why stocks halt and react at low levels and then
when they get to high levels, rush up fast and react very
little, because the stock has been absorbed and the selling
pressure is no longer encountered. Of course, all stock must
eventually reach a level where distribution will take place,
and supply exceed demand, as the only object of any one
buying stocks is to sell them again. The big money is made
in the last stage of a bull market when prices are feverishly
active, and the big profits on the short side are made in the
last stage of a bear market when everybody wants to sell and
nobody wants to buy.
                                                             75


               STOCKS THAT ARE YOUR ENEMIES

  Any trader who has followed the market for ten years
or more and has been an active trader, if he will carefully
analyze his trading, will find that there were certain stocks
which he was never able to make any profits in. He always
seemed to get in too soon or too late. No matter if he sold
them short or bought them he always ended up with a loss,
while other stocks always seemed to favor him, so much so
that he would call them his pets. Now there must be some
cause for this, as nothing just happens. Everything is the
result of a cause. When you find that a stock does not seem
to work well for you, leave it alone. Quit trading in it, and
stick to the ones that favor you. I could explain to you the
cause for this, but it is not necessary, and many of you would
not believe it.

  My own experience in trading and my analysis of the
cause of effects enabled me to discover the reason for these
things. For many years Mex Pete was one of my particular
pets. I could always make money in it. My forecasts on
it were so accurate that people all over the country who
subscribed to my market letter called me the “Mex Pete
Specialist.” I was able to catch its moves up and down over
90 per cent of the time just the same as if I had been making
the fluctuations myself. Many other stocks work just as well
as this for me, while others do not favor me and I have never
made any money out of them. It makes no difference whether
you know or do not know the reason why a thing works or
does not work; just as soon as experience teaches you that
there is something that works against you, the only thing to
do is to quit.
                           CHAPTER XIV


            HOW TO READ THE TAPE CORRECTLY


  The best way to read the tape correctly is to stay away
from it. Get the records of the day’s prices and the volume
of sales, make up your chart and judge it when you are not
influenced by rumors, gossip or reports or by the way the
tape looks when it is making a move that only lasts thirty
minutes or one hour. When final tops or bottoms are made,
for a major or minor move, it will be plainly shown by the
volume of sales and the time consumed at bottom or top
before the move starts.

  A stock, in order to go up, must have reactions, but each
succeeding bottom or top must be higher if the stock is going
to continue upward, until it reaches a level where the selling
is so strong and the volume of stock offered so great that
there is not enough demand to absorb it. Then a reaction
will take place and the stock decline to a level where the
demand again exceeds the supply and the trend will turn up.

  Studebaker. -- Notice the weekly Chart No. 2 on Stude-
baker which runs from September, 1920 to January 6, 1923.
A decline started from 66 on September 25, 1920 and
declined to 54 on October 2; then rallied to 59 in the week
of October 9. For four weeks following this date, it made
the same level of prices, failing to advance higher. This
showed that the supply of stock was greater than the demand.
A decline started on November 3 and by November 8 prices
had broken below 54, the bottom made on October 2, which
showed that the trend was again down.

  During the period from October 9 to November 6, when
prices were fluctuating within the range of two or three
points, and each week getting up around 59, the man watch-
ing the tape would have been fooled many times, because
each time it made 59 it would look like it was going higher,

                                  76
78


and how could he tell but what the buying would be great
enough to carry it through. The proper thing to do when
a stock makes a level like this is to sell out and go short with
a stop one to two points above the level; then wait until
supply or demand forces it higher or lower.

  In this case, the stock declined rapidly to 41 on Novem-
ber 20, then rallied to 48 the following week. After that
each week made a lower top and a lower bottom. In the
week ending December 25, 1920, the high of the stock was
41 3/4 and the low 37 3/4. The volume was large, but the
stock did not decline over two points below the previous
week and it closed near the top prices of the week, which
was an indication that the buying was better than the selling.
The following week it advanced to 45 1/2 which was higher
than the two previous weeks, but resistance was met at 47
to 48. During the week ending January 8, 1921, it advanced
through this level up to 52 and continued on up to 59, the
resistance levels made in October and November, 1920.

  Studebaker reacted from this resistance level again back
to around 55, and during the week ending February 19,
advanced through this level to 62, which showed that the
trend had turned up again, and if you had sold out and gone
short with stop at 6o, you should have covered and gone long
when it crossed this level.

  Note that for three weeks it held in a narrow range, but
did not break back below 58. Then the advance was resumed
and by April 2 it had reached 8o, which was above the last
high price made. From this level, the stock reacted to 72,
but the following week it received support at a higher level,
and so on each week until the week ending April 30, 1921,
when it advanced to 93, and the volume of sales was
359,760 shares. Again the week ending May 7, it fluctuated
from 92 1/2 to 87 with a volume of sales amounting to
227,300.

  Now note that from the bottom, which was made during
the week ending December 25, 1920, at 37 3/4, every rally
was from a higher bottom, which showed that the buying
was better than the selling and that the stock had not yet
reached a level where supply was greater than demand until
it advanced to 93, where the large volume of sales showed
                                                              79

that there was enough selling to check the advance. Note
that the week beginning May 9, 1921, the stock opened at
86, breaking the levels of the two previous weeks where
there was large volume. This was the first indication that
the trend had reversed and that you should sell out and go
short.

  This advance, which amounted to 55 points, lasted a little
over four months, during which time the weekly chart shows
that the trend never changed, but during this time, if you
will go back over the tape, you will find dozens of times
when you would have sold out and gone short and lost money.
Why? Because a move that would run thirty minutes, three
hours, or three days, down, would fool you and make you
think that the trend had changed.

  After the trend on Studebaker turned down, it declined
sharply until it reached 70 the week of May 28, 1921. After
that you will notice it held in a narrow range for three or
four weeks and only declined less than 2 points lower than
this level, which showed that there was some support. Then
it rallied to 82 1/2 the week ending July 9. After holding
around this level for several weeks, which showed that it
was again meeting with heavy selling, the trend turned down
again and it declined to 64 3/4 on August 25. Then followed
a sharp rally to 79 on September 10, then five or six weeks
of a slow decline down to 70; then six or seven weeks more
of narrow trading in a range of about four points.

  Finally, the week ending December 10, 1921, it crossed
the levels made on September 10, but again halted around
82, the levels made on July 9 to 16. Then the advance
started. The long period of time in a narrow range showed
that accumulation was taking place. The advance continued,
resistance levels being raised until it reached 124 1/2 on April
22, 1922. Then followed a quick decline down to 114 1/4
from which it advanced to 125 7/8, being higher than the
previous level, but the stock narrowed down and the volume
was small. In the week ending June 17, the stock declined
to 116 5/8, again getting a higher support than the last level
of 114 1/4 made on May 13, 1922.

  Then increased volume and great activity started and
the stock advanced to 139 3/8 on July 19, 1922, where the
80

volume during the last two weeks amounted to 400,000
shares. Besides, the volume on the advance from 116 5/8 up
to 139 3/8 amounted to 1,6oo,ooo shares, which was nearly
three times the total capital stock outstanding and probably
five or six times the floating supply of stock. This showed
plainly that distribution was taking place, and that the public
was buying this stock and that the insiders were selling out.

  A decline started and on August 12, 1922, it declined to
123, but the volume was only 11o,ooo. The following week
it fluctuated in about a four-point range with a volume of
only 46,000, which showed that the selling pressure was not
yet great enough to bring about a big decline. It advanced
to 134 and again declined to 123 3/4 on September 30, failing
to go through the level made on August 12.

  After this, a rapid advance started and in the week end-
ing October 14, 1922, it advanced to 139 3/8, the same level
made on July 19. The volume of sales was 205,000 shares
this week, which was an indication that selling was taking
place and that you should sell out and go short with a stop
loss order one or two points above the old level. The fol-
lowing week that volume of sales was 242,000 and the stock
declined to 129, a plain indication that the selling was greater
than the buying. The stock continued to work lower, but
met with stubborn resistance around 123 to 122 where it held
for two weeks.

  Finally, in the week ending November 25, 1922, it de-
clined rapidly to 116 and on Monday, November 27, it
declined to 114 1/4, the same low level it made on the reaction
May 13, 1922. Now the man who is simply standing at the
ticker watching the tape would hardly remember that 114 1/4
was the low price made on May 13, therefore the last point
where support was given, and from which it rallied to new
high levels. But the man who had the record of the tape
on a chart would certainly be watching this point. When it
reached 114 1/4 large volume of sales appeared on the tape
and it showed plainly that the support was there. This was
the point to buy the stock protected with a stop loss order
one to two points below the old resistance level of 114 1/4.

  The stock rallied to 123 3/4 the week ending December 2,
1922, and the volume of sales was 240,000 shares, which
                                                                81

showed that the buying was better than the selling. Note
that the two previous weeks the highest point was 125 1/2.
In the week beginning December 9, the stock was very active
and the volume of trading large. A stock dividend of 25
per cent was declared, and the stock advanced to 134 1/4, the
volume of sales being 500,000 shares for that week, which
was the largest for any week since the stock sold at 37 3/4
in December, 1920. This was plain evidence that the public
was buying stock and that it was in the zone of excitement
and great activity which nearly always marks the end of a
movement up or down.

  The advance continued, the stock reaching 141 3/4, a new
high level on December 27, 1922, which was just two days
before it sold ex-stock dividend. The volume of sales for
the week ending December 30 amounted to 240,000 shares.
After the stock sold ex-dividend, it declined to 110 3/8, then
rallied to 119 on January 2, 1923, which would equal 148 3/4
counting the stock dividend of 25 per cent.

  The total volume of sales between May 13, 1922, and
December 30, 1922, amounted to over 7,000,000 shares.
The range of the stock was 114 1/4 to 141 3/4. Now, this is
where volume tells. Certainly when the capital stock has
changed hands fifteen or twenty times in a range of 27 points,
after this stock is up over 100 points, there is no question
but what distribution is taking place and the stock is getting
ready for a long decline. Therefore, instead of investors
buying the stock because it pays 10 per cent, and has declared
a 25 per cent stock dividend, they should sell out and go
short.

  Now, the question is to determine the position of the
stock in January, 1923. After it advanced to 119, it started
to decline and short sales would be in order with a stop loss
order at 120 to 121. The resistance level at 114 having
been broken, the trend of the stock is down, and when it
breaks 110, the price made on December 29, 1922, it will
be in a weaker position and should be followed down until
signs of support, both in volume and time, are shown. By
time I mean that the stock must hold a resistance level for
several weeks without breaking lower. The period of time
required to distribute Studebaker was about eight months,
82

or from April to December, 1922. Note the last period of
accumulation when the stock sold around 65 and fluctuated
between that price and 8o, that the period of accumulation
was about six months, or from June to December, 1921, and
that the stock advanced 76 points from the low point made
on August 25, 1921, and if you count the stock dividend, it
advanced about 84 points.

  This same rule and reasoning should be applied to any
other stock that you wish to determine the trend of. During
the period of accumulation or distribution, the man who tries
to read the tape must get fooled dozens of times and make
mistakes in trying to follow minor moves which do not mean
anything. Therefore, the correct way to read the tape is to
keep up a chart showing moves of from three days to one
week and the amount of volume. Of course, you must con-
sider the total outstanding stock and the floating supply.
Again I emphasize the fact that the correct way to read
the tape and interpret it accurately, is to stay away from it.
                           CHAPTER XV


    WHEN THE TAPE FINISHES AND GIVES FINAL
                 SIGNALS

  The truth that the tape has to tell you cannot be told in
one day, in one week, or in one month. It begins to tell its
story the first day that a stock reaches the buying or selling
zone, but it requires time to complete the story; to assemble
all of the facts; to finish the accumulation or distribution and
give the final signal that a new move is on. Chart No. 3,
showing U. S. Rubber at the top of 1919, is an important
and valuable example of this.

  U. S. Rubber. -- When U. S. Rubber advanced to 138 in
June, 1919, and reacted back to 124, then rallied to around
138 again, holding until August around the same level, it
showed that selling pressure was sufficient to stop it. It
declined to 111 in September; rallied again to 138 in October,
made 139 in November; declined to 113 in November, re-
ceiving support 2 points higher than the September bottom.
Then rallied to 138 in December and in January, 1920,
advanced to 143, or 5 points above the high price made in
June, 1919.

  Now, making a new high, would ordinarily be an indica-
tion that it was going higher, but after a stock advances into
new territory, if it is going higher, it will continue on up
without breaking back below the old top levels. In this case,
U.S. Rubber, within a few days, declined to 136 which
showed that heavy selling had been encountered; that the
new high level was made at the expense of shorts and outside
buying; that the selling which started in June, 1919 was still
there and that someone was supplying the stock.

  A rapid decline followed in February, 1920, and when
the stock broke below 112, which was under the last support
point, it was a signal that distribution had been completed

                                   83
                                                                85

and that a big downward move would take place. In the
previous June, 1919, after U. S. Rubber had advanced from
45 in December, 1917, it showed that it had reached a level
where heavy selling had commenced, but the tape could not
tell when this selling would be completed, and all the stock
distributed. But it did tell the final story in February, 1920,
when it broke under 112 and promptly declined to 92, and
never rallied above 115 again until it sold at 41 in August,
1921. All the way down the selling pressure was plainly
indicated, and the stock continued to make lower tops and
lower bottoms. The tape was telling part of its story all
the time, but it did not show that it had finished until Novem-
ber, 1921, when, after three months in a narrow range, the
stock moved up into new high territory.

  Thus you see that after any big advance or big decline,
it requires time to tell when the next big move is going to
start, and the man who expects to read this from the tape,
day by day, will get fooled many times. Therefore, he should
wait until he gets a definite indication before deciding that
the big trend has turned and a major move started. The
larger the capital stock of the Company, or the more shares
outstanding, the longer it requires to complete accumulation
or distribution. The length of time, as well as the total
number of points that a stock has moved up or down from
high or low levels, must be considered in judging whether
accumulation or distribution is taking place.

  After U. S. Rubber was up 100 points from the low and
had reacted from the same high level for eight months and
after the panicky decline in November, 1919, had plainly
shown that the bull market was over, you would not expect
that U. S. Rubber making a new high, was going to very
much higher levels. But you should wait a few days to see
whether the price could be maintained before going short.
The daily high and low, weekly high and low chart and the
total volume of sales will help you to determine when a false
move of this kind is made, and the trend reverses, because
a move of this kind into new high territory, causes all the
shorts to cover and leaves the stock in a weak technical
position.
86

        TIME FOR ACCUMULATION AND DISTRIBUTION

  When a stock uses up several months’ time either in
accumulation or distribution, it will require then several
months for the run between accumulation and distribution.
All of the stock is not sold on the first rally, nor even on the
second or third. Stock has to be bought and the market
supported on the way up until it reaches a level where the
supply is greater than the demand and the insiders are willing
to sell out. Then it hesitates and moves up and down over
a narrow or wide range, according to the kind of stock, until
distribution is completed.

  The same occurs when a stock starts down. It requires
a long time to convince people that after a stock has been
selling at 140, it is going down 100 points. Some people buy
when it is down 10 points, others buy on 30, 40 and 50-point
reactions, believing the stock cheap because they remember
the price at which it formerly sold -- 14o, with the result that
when it continues downward, they all get scared and sell out,
causing the last rapid decline which may be anywhere from
10 to 30 points.

 If people would only learn to watch and wait, they could
make a lot more money, but they are in too big a hurry to
get rich, and the result is they go broke. They buy or sell
on hope, without a reason.
    TRUTH
      OF
THE STOCK TAPE
A STUDY OF THE STOCK AND COMMODITY MARKETS
    WITH CHARTS AND RULES FOR SUCCESSFUL
            TRADING AND INVESTING

                       BY

          WILLIAM D. GANN

                IN FOUR BOOKS
                    EMBRACING
          The Preparation and Knowledge
          Required; Methods of Operating
           And Determining Position of
             Stocks and Commodities


   FINANCIAL GUARDIAN PUBLISHING CO.
   91 WALL STREET         NEW YORK.




     This E-Book is not to be sold.
          It is a free educational service
                in the public interest
                    published by

          Gann Study Group
                              BOOK III

   HOW TO DETERMINE THE POSITION OF
               STOCKS

   “Read, not to contradict and confute, nor to believe and take for
 granted, nor to find talk and discourse; but to weigh and consider.”

                                                    -- FRANCIS BACON.
                                _______

  A man has to buy and sell to make a profit, that is, he
has to get in right and get out right. Then he must watch
for the proper time to start his trade and the proper time
to close it. Getting in right does not help if you fail to get
out right. The time to act either when buying or selling
must be determined by the condition of the market at the
time and by the position of the individual stocks that you
intend to trade in. You might be able to buy and make
profits in some stocks after a bull campaign has about
finished, while others you might be able to sell short and
make profits after the major swing of a bear market has
finished. This is fully explained under the chapters “How
to Tell the Stocks in Strongest Position" and ‘‘How to Tell
When Stocks Are in Weak Position.”

  Do not buy a stock of one group just because some stock
in another group goes up. Neither sell a stock of the same
group because some one of that group has already started
down. Analyze the position of the stock you intend to trade
in. Find out if it has passed out of the accumulation or
distribution zone. Stop to think before you act; look before
you leap; examine before you buy and remember that it is
always better to be safe than sorry. It is much better to take
a small loss quickly than to hold on and hope and take a big
one later.

                                    87
                          CHAPTER XVI


            POSITION OF GROUPS OF STOCKS

  It is very important to watch the position of the different
groups of stocks. To be a success you must keep up with
the times and follow the leaders. The way to do this is to
keep up a monthly high and low chart on several stocks of
each different group; also keep a yearly chart of the different
stocks. The further back you have records the better you
will be able to judge the position of a group.

  Many years ago Traction and Railroad stocks were the
leaders. Then followed the Copper boom. After that the
Motors, Rubbers and Oil stocks. Of course, every few years
some kind of a boom develops in different mining stocks, but
they are a class of stocks which you have to be very careful
of, as they are probably the most uncertain of all.

  During the past few years the man who stuck to Rails
has made very little money because the opportunities have
not been there. The Motors, Rubbers and Oils have been
the stocks which have made wide fluctuations and offered
unusual opportunities for trading.

  The day of Railroads is passing and the big fortunes will
not be made in them in future. Competition is getting keener
every day in the Motor industry and it will eventually narrow
down to a good return on invested money, but will not
produce enormous profits. For this reason you must be wide
awake and in future look to the new things which will offer
unusual opportunities and attract speculators, causing wide
fluctuations.

  In future you must watch for the new industries that
develop and get into their stocks, just the same as the people
who let Rails alone and got into motors and made a fortune.
Those who sold out Coppers in 1916 and played the Oils
in 1918 and 1919 made fortunes.

                                   88
                                                                89

  In my judgment, the Aeroplane and Radio stocks will
be the ones in the next few years that will make fortunes
as great as any that have been made in Oils or Motors. The
Chemical stocks also offer great opportunities in future, as
this country has made great progress along chemical lines
since the war and the business is growing on an enormous
scale.

  A wide range is what the trader requires in order to
make big profits. As long as stocks move between 20 to 100
points each year, you certainly will be able to make some
money on the long or short side, probably both. But when
they narrow down to 5 and 10 points in a year, your chances
are very much against big profits.

  In 1916 Copper stocks reached the highest level that
they had made for many years. But in 1919 when Oils and
Industrial stocks reached the highest level in their history,
Coppers only had a moderate rally. After that they worked
lower each year until 1920 and 1921. By keeping a chart
of this group and some of the leading issues, you would be
able to see that in 1919 the Copper stocks had been heavily
distributed because they failed to rally to the 1916 level.
Therefore, they were good short sales for a long decline.
                         CHAPTER XVII


           GENERAL TREND OF THE MARKET

  There is always a certain group of stocks which will
follow the general trend up or down, while others for a long
time will work opposite to the general trend. The Dow-
Jones 20 Rails and 20 Industrials for many years past have
been the best guide for the main swings, but since the number
of stocks listed on the N. Y. Stock Exchange have increased
from 100 to over 700, naturally there must be a large num-
ber of stocks which will follow their individual trend and
not the general trend of the market. Therefore, it is neces-
sary to make a close study of the individual stocks and deter-
mine their trend regardless of the trend of the general
market.

  An example of this kind occurred in the decline in
October and November, 1922. When all of the active
leaders like Baldwin, Crucible Steel, Studebaker, and U. S.
Steel were declining rapidly, Continental Can was advancing
almost every day. Look at Chart No. 4 on Continental
Can and see the different position it was in as compared to
Baldwin Locomotive and other stocks. It had made a new
high level and showed plainly that its trend was up, which it
would follow regardless of the trend of the general market.
I have explained this in regard to stocks that are late movers
and those that finish before and after final accumulation or
distribution is completed.

  While you could have been selling Baldwin Locomotive,
Crucible Steel and other leading stocks and making big
profits in the decline of November, 1922, at the same time
you could have been making big profits by buying Continental
Can. Many traders foolishly sold Continental Can because
it looked high, was advancing and paid no dividend. This
was in direct violation of my rule to always sell the weak

                                  90
92

stocks and buy the strong ones, which is really following the
trend of each individual stock. By watching closely the daily
high and low, weekly and monthly charts, you will be able
to determine when each individual stock has changed its posi-
tion from strong to weak.
                         CHAPTER XVIII


      HOW TO TELL THE STOCKS IN STRONGEST
                   POSITION

  If you are waiting for an indication to buy stocks, you
want to select the strongest stock in a certain group, as the
stock which is in the strongest position is naturally the one
that will lead in a Bull market and the one in weakest posi-
tion will lead in a Bear market.


                            STUDEBAKER

  Suppose in 1920 or 1921 you were watching and waiting
to buy one of the Motor stocks. Note that the low price
on Studebaker in 1917 was 34; again in 1918 low 34. The
high in 1919 was 152. It declined to 38 in December, 1920,
holding 4 points above the support levels of 1917 and 1918,
which showed that it was in a strong position. However,
the general group of Motor stocks in the Spring of 1921
did not show any sure signs of having made bottom, but
Studebaker led the advance.

  It made 93 in April, 1921; then followed the decline in
May, June, July and August, which carried all the Motor
stocks to new low levels. However, Studebaker, in August,
1921, when final bottom was reached in the general list, was
still selling at 65, up 27 points from the low of December,
1920, while other Motor stocks were lower than they had
sold in 1920 or the early part of 1921. This was a plain
indication that Studebaker was receiving strong support.
Otherwise, it could not gain 27 points while others were
losing.

  It remained in a quiet, narrow range from 65 to 72 for
several weeks, showing plainly that it was well supported
and being accumulated. If you had been waiting to buy

                                   93
94

again, this would be the time. After that Studebaker worked
up, making higher tops and higher bottoms each month, as
shown on Chart No. 2.

  On May 16, 1922, the low price of the reaction was
114 1/4; on June 12, 1922, low price 116 5/8; then on August
11, 1922, the low of the reaction was 123; again on Septem-
ber 29, 1922 low 123 7/8, showing progressive bottoms. On
November 27, 1922, it declined to 114 1/4, the same support
level of May 11 and 16, 1922, from which it rallied to 141 3/4
in December -- the highest of the year.

  A 25 per cent stock dividend was declared in November,
1922, and as the stock had been placed on a 10 per cent
dividend basis in July, 1922, besides an extra dividend of
$1.5o, it was only natural to suppose that this was the last
good news which the stock had discounted. After it sold
ex-stock dividend in December, 1922, it declined to 110 3/8,
breaking all previous support levels and indicating that the
trend had turned down. Therefore should be sold short
on all rallies. It may remain in a distributing range for
several months before it starts on a long decline, but at this
writing shows plain enough that it is going lower.


                         RAILROAD STOCKS

  On Chart No. 1 which shows the yearly high and low
of the 20 Railroad stocks, you will notice that the extreme
high price was made in 1906 and that after the 1907 panic
stocks rallied in 1909 within a few points of the highest
level. After that they continued to work lower. In 1916
and 1919 when Industrial stocks made the highest prices in
history, as you can see by the chart, railroad stocks only
made feeble rallies. In fact, after the rally in 1916 rails
made lower bottoms and lower tops every year until June,
1921.

  After the Average low price on Rails in June, 1921, they
continued to advance, reaching 77 in December, which was
the high of the year, as you can see from the chart. In
January, 1922, they reacted to 73; then advanced to 78 in
March, 1922, which was higher than the level of 1921 and
the first time that Average prices had made a higher top on
                                                              95

the yearly chart since 1916. In fact, in 1916 the rally was
only 4 points above the 1915 high and the big trend on
Railroad stocks was really down from 1909 to 1921. So
when finally they made a new high, it was a sure indication
that the trend had turned and that they were going higher.
They advanced to 93 on Averages in October, 1922, where
they met with a resistance at the same high prices of 1918
and 1919.

 Now, suppose in 1921 that you knew rails must reach
bottom some time and were watching to find the strongest
one to buy. Refer to New York Central Chart No. 5.


                           N. Y. CENTRAL

  It is an old stock and you can get its record for a long
number of years back and see how it established zones of
accumulation and distribution. In 1893 low 90; 1896 low
88; 1907 low 89; 1908 low 90 1/8. This shows strong sup-
port between 88 and 90, and that the stock had been bought
around these levels in panicky depressions over a period of
15 years.

  In 1914 it broke 88 and declined to 77. Now, after
breaking the support of such a long number of years, it was
a plain indication that the stock was going lower and that
it should be sold short and that you should watch for a new
base of support before buying again.

  In 1917 Railroad Stocks declined below the panic price
of 1914 and 1907. In fact, the Averages reached the lowest
they had been for nearly twenty years. The Government
was forced to take over the Railroads in order to handle
business on account of the war.

  In December, 1917, New York Central made a low of
63. In February, 1920 low 65; in June, 1921 it again sold
at 65, showing that for four years it had received support
at the same levels. Yet, during 1920 and 1921 Southern
Pacific, Great Northern Pfd., Northern Pacific, Norfolk &
Western, Missouri Pacific, Wabash Pfd. A and many other
railroad stocks had sold lower than they had for many
years. New York Central held up although the Averages
of Rails were several points lower than the panic price of
                                                              97

1917. This was another opportunity to buy with a stop 3
points under the old base of 63.

  The high price made between 1917 and 1921 was 84.
After being accumulated between 65 and 75, the stock
crossed 84 in March, 1922. This was a signal for much
higher prices, and if you wanted to pyramid, should buy
more at this level. It advanced to 101 in October, 1922,
where distribution started, and then began making lower
bottoms, showing that the trend had turned down.

  St. Paul. -- Another rail that made lower prices every
year from 1909 until 1921. It has shown accumulation for
some time and at this writing both the common and preferred
stocks now indicate that they are on the upward trend.

  Rock Island. -- Made a low price of 16 in December,
1917, and has been making higher prices each year. Note
how it led the advance in 1922 and made a new high. This
is the way to select the stocks to buy. The ones that will
not go down, and make higher bottoms in years of depression,
will certainly lead the advance when the turn comes.

  Southern Railway. -- Another stock that is now in a very
strong position. Has made higher bottoms ever since 1913
and still indicates higher prices.

  Union Pacific. -- Low in the panic of 1907 was 100; in
1917 low 102. Another stock that you had a chance to buy
at the old support level. February, 1920 low 11o; June,
1921 low 111, a still higher support, and the place to buy
with a stop loss order under 110.

  You can see that Union Pacific made higher supports on
each big decline from 1907 to 1921, while numbers of other
railroad stocks were reaching new low levels all of these
years, which showed that they were in a weak position and
without much support. Union Pacific rallied to 154 in Sep-
tember, 1922, where distribution started.


                  BUYING AND SELLING POINTS

  You follow this same rule in any group of stocks in order
to locate the strongest or weakest individual stock of the
group. When you have the record of a stock for a long
number of years back and see where it gets its support in
98

extreme panic years and where it meets with resistance in
boom years, you can easily tell the levels where it is safe
to buy or sell with a risk limited to two or three points.

  American Can. -- The low in July, 1914 was 20. It ad-
vanced to 68 in October, 1915; declined to 51 in 1916; then
advanced to 68, the same top, where it held for several
months without going higher, giving you a chance to sell out
and go short. It declined to 30 in the panicky break of 1917
and advanced to 68 in September, 1919, where it held for
nearly two months without advancing into new territory.
This was another opportunity to sell out and go short with
a stop 3 points above the old level.

  It declined to 22 in December, 1920, which was two
points above the support level in 1914. It rallied to 32 and
again in June, 1921 declined to 24, receiving support at a
higher level. Then remained for four months between 24
to 29, showing plainly that the stock was being accumulated.
You could then have bought again around these levels.

 In the fall of 1922 it crossed 68, the old resistance levels,
which was an indication for higher prices and you should
buy more.

  American Loco. -- In December, 1920, low 74; rallied to
91 in May, 1921. Declined to 74 in June, 1921, receiving
support at the same level and giving you an opportunity to
buy with a stop under the old base. It advanced to 117 in
April, 1922, which was the high price made in October,
1919. At this level you should have sold out and gone short
with a stop loss order at 120, or 3 points above the top. It
then declined to 109 and held for several weeks in a narrow
range, failing to break the support level around 108, which
was made in March and April, 1922.

  In August, 1922, it made 118, crossing the old levels and
indicating higher prices. It advanced to 136 in October,
1922, where it met with heavy selling and the trend reversed.
In November, 1922 declined to 116, which was the old re-
sistance level of October, 1919, and April and May, 1922.
A stock nearly always gets support the first time it reacts
back to old high levels and the main trend would be con-
sidered up as long as it stayed above old resistance levels.
                          CHAPTER XIX

     HOW TO TELL WHEN STOCKS ARE IN WEAK
                  POSITION

  You always want to know the stocks that are in the weak-
est position, because they are the safest to sell short in a
Bear market. The ones that show weakness first naturally
will be leaders in a Bear market. After the trend turns down
from the top and stocks have declined for quite awhile, the
next thing which will show that a bigger decline will take
place is the breaking of important support points.


                       INDUSTRIAL ALCOHOL

  Started up from a low price of 15 a share in January,
1915. Advanced to 170 in April, 1916; again in 1917 ad-
vanced to 171 and in May, 1919 advanced to 167. Declined
to 120 in August, 1919, and made the last advance to 164
in October, 1919. Notice on Chart No. 6 that the selling
zone from 167 to 171 extended over a period of four years.

  Now, notice the support points. December, 1916 low
95; November, 1917 low 99; December, 1918 low 96; De-
cember, 1919 low 98. This stock showed distribution and
that it was in a weak position, because in 1919 when Indus-
trial stocks reached the highest Average in history, this stock
failed to reach its previous high levels made in 1916 and
1917. Therefore, it was getting in position for a big decline.

  When it broke the support of 95 to 99, it declined to 78;
then rallied to 102, and continued to work lower until Novem-
ber, 1921. Yet, many other stocks made low prices in De-
cember, 1920 and in June and August, 1921, but Industrial
Alcohol declined to 35. So you see what enormous profits
can be made on the short side if you pick the stocks that are
in the weakest position and continue to follow them down
as long as the trend continues to show lower.

                                   99
                                                                101

  Notice how many times you could have bought the stock
between 100 and 96 and how many times you could have sold
it around 165 to 170, making profits every time on both the
long and short sides. Then, finally when the support around
96 was broken it declined 5o points more. Again I remind
you that stocks are never too low to sell as long as the trend
is down, and never too high to buy as long as the trend is up.

  After Industrial Alcohol reached 35 it remained for
about two months in a 5 or 6 point range and since that time
has been making higher tops and higher bottoms. It reached
72 in October, 1922, and as this stock was one of the last
to make low prices in 1921, it will naturally be one of the
last to complete its upward swing.

  If you had been short of this stock in June or August,
1921, when other stocks made bottom, there would have
been no reason for covering as it was making lower prices
every month and showing plainly that the trend was down.
You should at least have waited to cover until it made a
higher price than a previous month, which would have been
42, when it went over the high price of December, 1921.


               ATLANTIC GULF AND WEST INDIES

  Another stock which had a phenomenal rise in the Bull
campaign of 1919. Notice that its support levels in 1917
and 1918 were between 88 and 92. You could have bought
it around these levels numbers of times and sold it out with
profits of 15 to 20 points. It had a top, or resistance level
from 1917 until the early part of 1919 between 117 to 120,
where you could always have sold it and gone short. It
declined to 92 in February, 1919. The previous low price
was 89 made in December, 1917. This was the place to
buy, protected with a stop under the old support levels.

  It advanced and in April, 1919 crossed 120, which was
an indication for much higher prices. In May, 1919 it
crossed the high of its history, 147; advanced to 188 in June;
reacted to 140 in August; advanced to 192 in October, 1919.

  After that it began making lower bottoms and lower
tops. In February, 1920 it declined to 137; rallied to 176
in April, 1920, where it again was distributed for several
102

months, finally breaking the support of 137 and continuing
the decline, the rallies getting smaller all the time.

  In November, 1920 it broke through the supports at 92
and 88, which left no other support level except the low price
of 27 made in 1916. It declined to 62 in December, 1920,
and while other stocks were rallying in January, 1921, it
continued on down, finally declining to 18 in June, 1921.

  After making bottom for two months at 19 it started to
rally. Advanced to 36 in December, 1921; reacted to 24
in February, 1922, holding for several weeks at this higher
support point; advanced to 43 in May, 1922; then declined
to 19 in January, 1923, where it was again supported, and
you should buy with a stop two to three points under.

  Thus, you can see how safe it is to sell a stock and keep
short of it as long as it shows weakness, regardless of what
other stocks are doing.
                           CHAPTER XX

          JUDGING FINAL TOPS AND BOTTOMS

  Before any stock, or group of stocks, starts on a big
advance or decline, a long period of time is required for
preparation, or accumulation or distribution. It requires
time to prepare and lay the foundation for a building. The
larger the building, the more time required to construct the
foundation. It is the same with stocks. The greater the
advance or the decline, the more time required in preparing
for it. For example:


                              U. S. STEEL

  Take U. S. Steel which was incorporated February,
1901. It was a new stock and the largest corporation of
its kind in the world at that time. Its common stock was
all water, and as water seeks its level, Steel common with its
five million shares of water had to seek its level. It required
many years to reach that level. The stock declined from
55 in 1901 down to 8 3/8 in 1904. When it reached the level
of 12 it remained from December, 1903 to September, 1904
fluctuating between 12 and 8 3/8. Most of the time the fluc-
tuations were between 9 and 10. It was at very low ebb,
slow narrow fluctuations with very small volume of sales.
This is where accumulation took place, which required about
ten months and gave you ample time to watch it and see that
it was receiving support. You did not have to be in a hurry
about buying, as it was preparing for its long advance.

  We will overlook the top at 94 7/8 in 1909. However,
you can look it up for yourself and see that the entire capital
stock changed hands several times between 88 and 94, and
some days the trading in this stock alone ran over half a
million shares, which, of course, showed that it was being

                                  103
104

distributed. Now, look at the final top in November, 1916
on Chart No. 7, when it reached 129 3/4. There was a wide
range of fluctuations and big volume. It declined to 101 in
December, 1916, rallied to 115 in January and early Feb-
ruary, 1917, and on February 3, 1917, when the Germans
declared the U-Boat war, it declined to 99, which was only
two points under the December low. Then the advance
started, which carried it up to 136 5/8 in May, 1917.

  The volume around this top was over fifteen million
shares, or three times the total capital stock. Note the
3-point chart, which shows how active it was and how it was
moving up and down while distribution was taking place.
The distribution of this stock was really going on from
October, 1916 until May and June, 1917. Therefore, the
man who wanted to sell out and go short had plenty of time
to watch the stock and determine when distribution had been
completed. It was getting ready for a long decline, but had
advanced 98 points from its extreme low level of 1914, and
it required time to distribute it. But note after distribution
was completed, how rapidly it declined, reaching 8o in De-
cember, 1917.

  The general impression among the public is that “as steel
goes so the market goes”; that is, they feel that U. S. Steel
is the leader, either up or down. There was a time when
it was the leader, but it is not now. The majority of stocks
made high prices in October and November, 1916, and were
at much lower levels in May, 1917; yet U. S. Steel went
7 points higher in May, 1917 than the high of November,
1916. People who bought other stocks, expecting them to
follow the lead of U. S. Steel and make higher prices than in
1916, got badly fooled and lost their money. This is another
illustration and proof of my rule: “Do not buy stocks of a
different group because some other stock is strong.”


              GENERAL MOTORS AND STUDEBAKER

  Trade in the stock that gives the strong or weak indica-
tion; do not try to pick one to follow it. Judge each stock
according to its individual position, -- by Time, Space and
Volume. Do not expect General Motors to have a big
106

advance because Studebaker has already advanced. Look
up General Motors chart and note its position. Also con-
sider that it has a capital stock of fifty million shares, while
Studebaker has only 750,000 shares. Don’t forget it requires
buying power to put a market up and selling pressure to put
it down. It requires a much larger buying power to move
a stock with several million shares than it does one with only
750,000.

  Did you ever stop to consider that with a stock like
General Motors, each point up or down means a gain or
loss of fifty million dollars on the total capital stock? This
is why so much buying and selling occurs at every point and
why it moves so slow. When General Motors increased its
stock in 1920 and issued 10 for 1, the price was 42 in March,
1920, which equalled the value of 420 per share for the old
stock. A slow decline started. It reached 13 in December,
1920, which was nearly 30 points down in nine months’ time.
This big decline was produced because with fifty million
shares, there was no pool that was willing and had the money
to support it. It continued to decline until it reached the low
price of 8 in January, 1922; then advanced to 15 in June,
1922.

  This advance of 7 points seemed very small compared
with what Studebaker and other motor stocks were doing.
Yet, the percentage was just as great. Studebaker advanced
from a low of 65 in 1921 to a high of 141 in 1922, which
was a little over 100 per cent increase on its selling price,
and General Motors advanced from 8 to 15, nearly 100 per
cent on its selling price. So many people get fooled in buying
low-priced stocks and simply hope and expect them to
advance in points almost proportionate to a high-priced stock.
Low-priced stocks do advance and decline in proportion to
high-priced stocks, and even greater at times, when you figure
the percentage on the price at which they are selling.


              AMERICAN SMELTING AND REFINING

  Note Chart No. 8 on American Smelting and Refining,
and the long period of accumulation from September, 1901
to May, 1904 when it made a range from 37 to 52. Now,
108

when once it broke out of this range of accumulation, it was
a plain indication that the advance would last for a long time,
and that it would be a big one. It advanced to 174, never
having any big reaction. It reached the high price in January,
1906; then distribution started which lasted for a year. It
fluctuated between 174 and 138 and finally in January, 1907,
broke under the distribution point of 138 and declined rapidly,
reaching 56 in February, 1908. Thus you see that after great
activity and a long time in a narrow or wide range at top
or bottom, a big move follows in which you can make profits
rapidly. Then how foolish it is for anyone to try to buck
the trend or to hold on and hope when stocks start to go
against them.

  Suppose that when the advance in this stock started, you
sold short around 5o because it was near the old high price.
When it crossed 52, it plainly showed up, because it was in
new territory. Suppose you decided to wait for a reaction to
cover your shorts, which reaction did not come. The stock
advanced to 62, 72, 82, 92, and on up to 174. What good
would margin do? You would simply be throwing your
money away, because you would be bucking the trend. Again
let us suppose that you started selling short at 100, and tried
to average, as so many people foolishly do. You would have
been ruined.

  The same thing applies to the man who bought the stock
around 138 in early 1907, and it declined to 56. What
chance would he have, trying to average or by buying the
stock outright and paying for it? He never would have
gotten out. Just go over records of stocks for as many years
back as you like and study them, and you will find out that
it does not pay to buck the trend or try to average. The
proper way to trade is to go with the trend, and pyramid
while you are making profits, and not when the market is
going against you. I reiterate: Stop your losses quickly and
let your profits run.


               PROGRESSIVE TOPS AND BOTTOMS

  It always pays to keep a chart of Averages of any group
of stocks, as you can then judge when they have reached a
                                                               109

level where they are receiving support or being distributed.
But, of course, you cannot trade in Averages; therefore,
must keep a chart of some of the individual issues of each
group in order to determine the best ones to trade in and
the right time to buy or sell.

  On active stocks 5 to 10-point moves will help to show
when tops or bottoms are being made. On stocks selling
25 to 6o per share 3-point charts will show best, but on stocks
selling 100 to 300 per share 5 and 10-point moves are much
better because it requires a wider range in which to buy or
sell a large amount of stock.

  Sometimes stocks require several years to lay a founda-
tion for a big Bull or Bear campaign. Suppose you were
keeping Oil stocks in 1913 and were watching for something
which would lead an Oil boom when it developed. Take
California Pete.

  California Pete. -- The low in 1913 was 16; 1915 low
8; 1916 low 16; 1917 low 11, at which price it remained
in a narrow range for about four months, showing that the
stock was receiving support at a higher level than the low
price of 1915. Having declined from 72 a share, the high
price in 1912, it had shown accumulation between 16 and 8
from 1913 to 1917.

  It advanced to 56 in 1919; declined to 15 in November,
1920, and advanced to 71 in July, 1922. This is what we
call “progressive” bottoms, i.e., each support several years
apart being higher. 1915 support 8; 1917 support 11; 1920
support 15; and in 1921 low 30. As long as a stock makes
higher bottoms and higher tops, the trend is up and it is
safe to follow the advance. This rule applies to daily,
weekly, monthly or yearly movements.

  Mexican Pete. -- Another example of progressive bot-
toms or higher support. In 1913 low 42; 1914 low 51;
1917 low 67; 1918 low 79. In October, 1918 made its first
big advance to a new high and reached 264 in October, 1919;
declined to 84 1/2 in August, 1921, making a still higher bot-
tom than the last bottom in 1918. So you see all of these
years Mexican Pete was receiving support at higher levels,
which showed that it was preparing to reach extreme high
levels before distribution would take place.
112

  Look up in the same way any stock you are interested
in or wish to trade in and note its position over a long number
of years. The larger the accumulation or distribution and
the more time consumed at top or bottom, the greater the
advance or decline will be. As an example, -- see Chart No.
9 on Corn Products.

  Corn Products. -- Sold at 28 when it was first incor-
porated in 1906. It declined to 8 in 1907; advanced to 26
in June, 1909; declined to 10 in 1912; advanced to 22 in
1913; declined to 8 in 1913; rallied to 13 in 1914; declined
to 7 in July, 1914. It remained in a narrow range and did
not sell above 10 until the Spring of 1915.

  It was first supported at 8 in 1907; again at 8 in 1913;
and on the extreme war scare sold at 7 in 1914, and showed
a long period of accumulation. 28 had been the high of its
history, which price was made in 1906. It crossed this level
in 1917. This was a period of ten years that the stock had
ranged most of the time between 20 and 8, showing a long
period of accumulation and getting into new high territory
showed that it was in position for a big advance.

  In 1919 it advanced to 99; declined to 77; then advanced
to 105. In December, 1920 declined to 61; rallied to 76 in
March, 1921; then declined to 59 in June, 1921, receiving
support two points lower than the previous level. Then it
advanced to 134 in October, 1922.

  Thus, you see that after the stock crossed its high level
for ten years, it became more active than ever, never reacted
below 24 and steadily advanced to 105 in 1920, the reactions
being very small and every bottom higher and showing plain
indication of the upward trend.

  It is just as important to determine where stocks reach
top or distributing zones in order to sell out and go short
as it is to find accumulation and the bottoms at which to buy.
Refer to Chart No. 3 on U. S. Rubber:

  U.S. Rubber. -- Notice that it reached 138 in June, 1919;
made the same high in July; made 137 in August; again in
October made 138; in November 139, and in December,
1919 made 138. During all this time the bottoms had been
between 111 and 117. The stock was finally rushed up to
a new high of 143 in January, 1920, and quickly broke back,
                                                              113

which was an indication that distribution had been completed
and that it was ready to start on the long decline.

  It began making lower tops and lower bottoms every
month, but when it broke through 111, it showed that all
support had been withdrawn and that distribution had been
completed. The stock declined to 41 in August, 1921. Its
support points from 1914 to 1917 had been between 44
and 45.

  You might ask why certain stocks reach levels over a
long number of years where they meet with support or resis-
tance. The reason is that the same men manipulate these
stocks. They are usually on the inside and know something
about their value. Therefore, they buy them around a cer-
tain level and hold until they reach a level which they con-
sider high enough; then sell out and go short, or wait unti]
they decline to around the same levels again, where they buy
for another campaign. You should study very carefully the
stock that you trade in, in order to determine what its past
points of support and resistance have been.


                     THE SIGNS OF A CHANGE

  When you see the clouds gather you know that it is a sign
of rain, and you seek shelter, because experience has taught
you that certain formations of clouds invariably indicate rain
or storm. When you see the same signs in the stock market
that have always meant distribution in the past, you should
take it as your warning, stand from under, and protect your-
self against the decline. Likewise, when you see the same
kind of bottoms that have always indicated accumulation,
you should cover shorts and buy.

  You judge a tree by the fruit it bears; in stocks you must
judge each by its own signs and signals and not by what other
stocks do. When you get an indication and the time comes
to buy or sell, place your order at the market; do not limit
buying or selling prices. This often causes losses because
you miss your market by an eighth or a quarter and thus lose
big profits. When it is time to get in or out, never quibble
over a fraction; do not lose points by trying to save an eighth.
                         CHAPTER XXI

      NUMBER OF TIMES A STOCK FLUCTUATES
            OVER THE SAME RANGE

  Very active stocks and those that are high priced, when
they reach a level where the insiders want to unload, make
rapid moves up and down for several months over a wide
range, which causes traders to buy and sell because there are
unusual opportunities. The stock remains around the high
level long enough for them to become accustomed to the price
and feel safe enough to buy.

  Suppose that a stock has advanced 20 or 30 points
straight up, without much reaction, and it reaches top. It
can not be distributed in one day, one week, or one month,
but the sure sign of accumulation or distribution is a stock
moving up or down many times over the same range, es-
pecially making moves of 5 points or more without getting
above its high point, and at the same time not breaking under
its resistance levels on the down side. Sometimes a stock
will move over the same range anywhere from 10 to 20
times, working up and down.

  Note Studebaker in 1922, and Industrial Alcohol, U. S.
Rubber, and American Woolen in 1919. You will see how
they fluctuated up and down over a wide range while dis-
tribution was taking place. Studebaker moved up and down
over the same range over 20 times between 114 and 139
between May and November, 1922. The big swings up and
down over this same range were only 5 or 6 times, but count-
ing 5-point moves or more, it covered the same territory over
20 times. That showed that distribution was taking place,
and that it was preparing for a long move down.


                WHEN TO STAY OUT AND WATCH

 If you have been successful and followed a bull campaign
up for many months and accumulated a big line of profits,

                                 114
115

you must be on your guard for the first real indication of a
change in trend and the end of the bull campaign. When
you get this sign of the end, which, as I have explained, is
larger volume and rapid, feverish fluctuations, then get out,
watch and wait; that is, sell out your long stocks and wait
for the opportunity to go short. Never be in a hurry to get
in again once you are out with a good profit. Opportunities
always come again in the stock market if you only have the
patience to wait for them.

  Another time when you should get out and watch is after
the first signs are shown that a bear market is culminating.
It takes time to accumulate stocks and you do not want to
get in too soon. If you have made big profits on the way
down, you can afford to wait a few weeks or months until the
signs are plain that another bull market is starting.


                       INSIDE INFORMATION

  Wide fluctuations occur more often at high levels than
at low levels, because distribution is taking place. When
stocks reach very low levels after a final drive, they slow
down and often work for some time in a very narrow range
while accumulation is taking place. Accumulation and dis-
tribution are exactly opposite. When the insiders want to
sell stocks, they make all the noise possible and do everything
to attract the attention of the public and create a large public
buying power. When stocks decline to low levels and they
want to accumulate a large line, they work just as quietly as
possible. They use every means to disguise the fact that
they are buying stocks, and do everything to discourage the
outsiders from buying them.

  There is nothing wrong in the tactics employed by
manipulators. It is simply business policy, and you would
pursue the same policy if you were in the same position.
They must buy stocks from some one, and they want to buy
them as cheap as they can. Then you cannot expect the
fellow on the inside, if he is honest and working for his own
interest, to tell you that he is buying. Neither can you expect,
when stocks get near the top and he is selling, that he will
tell you that he is selling out, because he thinks they are high
116

enough. He would be a fool if he did, because in order to
cash in and get his profits, he must sell stocks to some one.

  So many people believe the only way to make money in
the stock market is by getting “inside information.” I can
tell you, after twenty years’ experience, that inside informa-
tion is impossible, and the sooner you get the idea out of
your head that inside information will help you, the better
off you will be. If you were playing poker with a man, would
you expect him to show you his hand, and not expect to see
yours? He certainly would not, and you know that he would
not. If he did, you would win all his money. Then, why
do you expect the man on the inside, whether he be a banker,
pool manager, manipulator, investor or otherwise, to tell you
what he is doing when he is trying to make a market to sell
out a line of stocks or to accumulate a line?

  You may be able to find out what he is doing if you can
interpret the tape correctly, because it tells the story of every-
body’s buying and selling, and it never lies if you know how
to read it right, for neither the insiders nor the outsiders
can hide or disguise the amount of buying or selling. Every
share bought or sold is registered on the tape. If you know
how to correctly analyze the volume of sales and space move-
ments, you will be able to tell when to buy and sell.

  The most important thing of all is the Time factor, which
I use in making up my annual forecasts. It is not my object
here to give away that secret, but I am showing you plain
enough and giving you rules enough that, if you follow them,
you will be able to make a success in the stock market. The
price you pay for this book means nothing. One idea that
I give you may be worth thousands of dollars to you in the
next five to ten years’ time, if you will only follow it. If I
only succeed in teaching you how to avoid losing your money
for the first three to five years, and you can keep even and
get experience, then there is no estimating the value of this
knowledge, for after a few years’ experience and study, you
will then be able to make money rapidly.
    TRUTH
      OF
THE STOCK TAPE
A STUDY OF THE STOCK AND COMMODITY MARKETS
    WITH CHARTS AND RULES FOR SUCCESSFUL
            TRADING AND INVESTING

                       BY

          WILLIAM D. GANN

                IN FOUR BOOKS
                    EMBRACING
          The Preparation and Knowledge
          Required; Methods of Operating
           And Determining Position of
             Stocks and Commodities


   FINANCIAL GUARDIAN PUBLISHING CO.
   91 WALL STREET         NEW YORK.




     This E-Book is not to be sold.
          It is a free educational service
                in the public interest
                    published by

          Gann Study Group
                          CHAPTER XXII

                    CROSSING OLD LEVELS

  When stocks establish certain levels of accumulation or
distribution over a long number of months or years and then
cross them it is almost a sure sign that they are going to new
high or low levels before they meet with resistance again.
As a rule it is always safe to buy or sell a stock around old
bottoms or tops with a stop loss order three points above or
below previous high or low prices. For example: see Chart
No. 10 on Republic Steel.

  Republic Steel. -- In 1916 the high was 93; 1917 high
94; 1918 high 96. It was a sale every time it reached these
levels. In 1919 it crossed 96 and advanced to 104; then
reacted to 81; crossed 96 the second time and advanced to
145. A stock going into new high territory the second time
is always safer to buy than the first time, as the first time it
goes through it is likely to meet with a lot of selling to drive
it back, but the second time the stock has all been absorbed
and it is easy for it to advance. Note from 1914 to 1919
the bottoms were “progressive” or higher on Republic Steel.

  Wabash Pfd. A. -- December, 1916 high 6o. Worked
lower each year, making lower bottoms and lower tops until
December, 1920, when it reached 17. It ranged between
18 and 24 all during 1921, while accumulation was taking
place. Declined to 20 in August, 1921, making another
higher bottom, and sold at 20 every month from August,
1921 to February, 1922. Here was a strong indication of
support and you should buy the stock with stop at 18, and
buy more when it crossed the high price of 24 made in 1921.
It advanced to 34 in April, 1922, which was the old resistance
level of October, 1920. Distribution took place and it de-
clined to 23 in December, 1922, receiving support and re-
maining in a 2-point range for several weeks; then started
upward again.

                                   117
                                                               119

  In studying the different groups of stocks, you should
watch the position of each individual stock to see which one
is in position to lead an advance or decline.

  Crucible Steel. -- Started its big advance in 1915 and
made 109 7/8. It made lower tops in 1916, 1917 and 1918.
The bottom in 1916 was 51; in 1917 low 46; 1918 low 52.
When the stock crossed the high price of 1918, it was an
indication for a further advance, and when in 1919 it had
crossed the top of its history, 109 7/8 made in 1915, it was
a sure indication that it was going to make extreme high
prices.

  The fact that it held around 46 to 52 for three different
years on declines showed accumulation. Crucible advanced
to 278 in 1920, which, of course, was an extreme price and
not based on intrinsic value. Therefore, after doubling the
capital it suffered an extreme decline back to 49 in August,
1921, where it was again in its old zone of bottoms and was
a purchase for another advance.


             CUTTING AND INCREASING DIVIDENDS

  I have stated before that you should never sell stocks
just because they do not pay dividends, nor buy them because
they do. In December, 1921, Crucible advanced to 69. It
was then paying 4 per cent. It declined to 53 on February
27, 1922. Early in March the dividend was passed, when
the stock was selling around 58. It declined to 53 1/2 and
failed to break the low price made before the dividend was
passed. This was an indication that the passing of the
dividend had been discounted, and that if the stock could
hold above the levels previously established, it was a pur-
chase regardless of dividends.

  It advanced to 98 in September, 1922, which was the
level from which the last break started in 1921. Around
this time a new issue of stock was offered to stockholders at
$100 per share. This caused selling in the old stock and
reversed trend, the stock declining to 59 in November, 1922.

  Always watch a stock when new stock is offered at a price
around which the old stock is selling. If the old stock fails
to get higher than the price at which the new stock is offered,
120

it is an indication of good selling and you should sell out and
go short.

  United Retail. -- Another instance of the effect of divi-
dend reduction is United Retail Stores. The low price made
in December, 1920 was 46. The stock rallied to 62 in May,
1921; declined to 47 in August, 1921, again receiving higher
support. It advanced to 57 in January, 1922 and showed
every evidence of having been accumulated for the past year.
In February, 1922, when the stock was selling around 53,
the dividend was cut and it declined to 44.

  Now, if you had bought around the old level of 1920 --
46 -- and placed a stop 3 points away, or at 43, it would
never have been caught. During March, 1922 the low was
44 and the high 47, a 3-point range for a month, which
showed that the stock was being supported. It opened at
45 in April; then the advance started. Suppose you had
waited until it crossed the high price made in March and
bought at 48. In a little over thirty days after that time,
the stock advanced to 71. After reacting 10 points, con-
tinued on up to 87 in October, 1922, the old resistance level
of 1920, where it met with heavy selling, and declined to
66 in December, 1922, another resistance level.

  This shows you that the insiders knew a long time before
the dividend was cut that it was going to be cut, and they
were buying the stock. Now, all you had to do was to wait
and see if they would give it support around the previous
low level. After they had held it for two months without
permitting it to break 3 points under the old bottom, it cer-
tainly was safe enough for you to buy and risk 3 points on.

  In many instances when dividends are cut it is the time
to buy as the worst is known and has been discounted. As
a rule when dividends are increased and extra dividends paid,
the insiders are distributing stock and they bring out the good
news in order to entice the public into buying. I could cite
you hundreds of instances, but one example will suffice.

  U.S. Steel. -- Advanced to 136 5/8, the high of its history,
in May, 1917. It was paying 5 per cent dividend. The
dividend was then increased, or an extra dividend paid, which
equalled 17 per cent. But the stock never sold as high again
and declined to 70 1/4 in 1921, because the insiders knew that
                                                               121

the earnings were the best they probably would ever be and
it was the time to bring out the good news and facilitate dis-
tribution of the stock.

  Book Values. -- Another thing I wish to call your atten-
tion to that misleads many an investor is “book values.”
Statisticians had figured the book value of U. S. Steel at
around $250 a share in 1917, and, of course, the poor
suckers who bought it at the top thought it would go there.
As far as the advance in price is concerned, “book values”
mean nothing, because the company is not going to be
liquidated. Therefore the book value is only good to create
false hopes and make people buy and hold on, thinking that
the stock should sell somewhere near its book value. Not
one stock in a hundred ever sells anywhere near the book
value.

  In February, 1915, U. S. Steel passed its dividend. The
stock was selling around 40. It declined to 38 and has never
sold lower since. That was the time to buy a real bargain,
not when it paid 17 per cent and sold above 130.

  In 1915 the high on U. S. Steel was 89; in January, 1916
low 80; again March and April, 1916 low 80. The stock
held in a range of 9 points for nine months and in August,
1916 advanced to 90, which was above the high price of the
previous year. After holding for so long in a narrow range,
it was a sure indication of a big advance, because the stock
had been accumulated. Otherwise, it would have declined
below 80. It advanced to 129 without reacting five points.

  After the high price of 136 5/8 in May, 1917 it declined
to 8o, the low price made in 1916, where it received support.
According to the rule, you would have bought with a stop
3 points away, or at 77. It advanced to 116 in August, 1918.
Remained two months around 116, which showed that dis-
tribution was taking place and that you should sell out and
go short with a stop 2 or 3 points above 116. It declined
to 89 in January and February, 1919; remained for two
months in a very narrow range without breaking the bottom
of the previous month. Here was another chance to buy
with a stop 2 or 3 points under the old bottom.

 The stock advanced to 115 in July, 1919, failing by one
point to reach the 1918 top. Here you should sell out and
122

go short again with a stop above the old levels. The stock
continued on the down trend and in 1920 broke the bottom
of 89 made in 1919 and also broke the support points at
8o made in 1916 and 1917, which showed that support had
been withdrawn and that it was going lower. It declined to
70 1/4 in June, 1921. Remained in a narrow range during
July and August, fluctuating between 72 and 76. This
showed that accumulation was taking place and that you
should buy with a stop loss order under 70, or buy as soon
as the stock crossed the levels made for two months, which
showed that the trend had again turned up.

  It advanced to 111 in October, 1922, where it reached
the distributing zone of 1919 and 1920. At this writing it
shows that distribution is taking place and the stock is getting
ready for another downward move before the end of 1923.

  You should always study each individual stock separately
and learn how to follow its moves. No two work just exactly
alike; neither do all stocks make tops and bottoms at the
same time, but they do show plainly when they are in a strong
or a weak position, and you will be able to judge the position
of a stock in each different group by making up a monthly
high and low chart for several years back.


          WHEN STOCKS MAKE NEW HIGHS OR LOWS

  When a stock advances or declines into new territory or
to prices which it has not reached for months or years, it
shows that the force or driving power is working in that
direction. It is the same principle as any other force which
has been restrained and breaks out. Water may be held
back by a dam, but if it breaks through the dam, you would
know that it would continue downward until it reached an-
other dam, or some obstruction or resistance which would
stop it. Therefore, it is very important to watch old levels
of stocks. The longer the time that elapses between the
breaking into new territory, the greater the move you can
expect, because the accumulative energy over a long period
naturally will produce a larger movement than if it only
accumulated during a short period of time.
                                                                         123

                            1921 HIGH PRICES

  1921 was low year of the depression. Although there
was a strong rally up to May, 1921, most stocks made low
prices in June and August, 1921. Now just look up a list
of stocks and see the ones that crossed the high prices made
in the early part of 1921. They are the ones that led the
1922 bull market and had the biggest advances, while stocks
that failed to make the highs of 1921 are yet selling at low
levels (January, 1923). Following are some examples of
stocks that made new highs:

Allis Chalmers: 1921 high 39; advanced to 59 in 1922.
American Can: 1921 high 32; advanced to 76 in 1922. When it crossed 68
   it was in new territory for its history and indicated much higher prices.
   Up to this writing in 1923 it has advanced to 84.
American Smelting: 1921 high 44; advanced to 67 in 1922.
American Woolen: 1921 high 82; advanced to 105 in 1922.
Atchison: 1920 and 1921 high 9o; crossed this price in 1922 and advanced
   to 108 in September, 1922.
Baldwin: 1921 high 200; advanced to 142 in 1922.
Canadian Pacific: 1920 and 1921 high 129; crossed it in February, 1922 and
   advanced to 151 in September, 1922.
Chile Copper: 1921 high 16; 1922 high 29.
Coca Cola: 1919 high 45; 1920 high 40; 1921 high 43; crossed all of these
   highs in the early part of 1922 and advanced to 82.
Continental Can: 1919 high 103; 1920 high 98; 1922 high 68; crossed all
   of these highs and advanced to 124 in 1922.
Great Northern Pfd.: 1921 high 79; crossed in 1922 and advanced to 95.
L. & N.: 1921 high 118; crossed in 1922 and advanced to 144.
New York Central: 1921 high 76; crossed in 1922 and advanced to 101.
Pan Pete: 1921 high 79; advanced to 100 in 1922.
Sinclair Oil: 1921 high 28; advanced to 38 in 1922.
Studebaker: 1921 high 93; crossed it in January, 1922 and advanced to 141.
U.S. Cast I. P.: 1921 high 19; advanced to 39 in 1922.
U.S. Steel: 1922 high 88; advanced to 111 in 1922.

  Thus you see that all of the stocks which crossed the high
of May, 1921, early in 1922 had big advances, because they
were in strong position, and the buying power being strong
enough to carry them over the previous years highs, showed
that they were going higher.


        STOCKS THAT DID NOT CROSS 1921 HIGHS IN 1922

  You will note that the stocks which did not show strength
in the early part of 1922, and were unable to advance any-
124

where near or cross 1921 highs, have proved to be laggards
and are still selling at comparatively low levels (up to this
writing). This again proves my rule to buy the strong ones
and sell the weak ones, and do not let the price at which they
are selling prejudice your judgment, as the stock that is sell-
ing the highest will often continue to advance while those
that are selling low will continue to decline.

  The following stocks failed to cross the highs of 1921
during 1922. Note the levels at which they are now selling
(January, 1923):

American Agricultural Chemical: 1921 high 50; selling at 32 at the end of
   1922.
American International: 1921 high 53; selling around 26 at the end of 1922.
American Linseed: 1921 high 6o; selling at 32 at the end of 1922.
American Sumatra Tobacco: 1921 high 88; although this stock is a late
mover
   and did not make bottom until after the other stocks, it was still selling
   around 28 at the end of 1922, which is near low levels.
Atlantic Gulf: May, 1921 high 44; selling at 22 at the end of 1922.
Chandler Motors: 1921 high 85; 1922 high 79; selling at 65 at the end of
   1922.
International Paper: 1921 high 73; selling around 52 at the end of 1922.
Pierce Arrow Common and Preferred: High of 1921, 41 and 49 respectively;
   both selling at low levels at the end of 1922.
United Drug: 1921 high 105; did not rally above 84 in 1922.
U. S. Industrial Alcohol: 1921 high 74. It was a late mover and did not
   make bottom until November, 1921, but only rallied to 72 in 1922 and
   failed to cross 1921 top.
Virginia Carolina Chemical: 1921 high 42; selling at 25 at the end of 1922.
Worthington Pump: 1921 high 55; declined to a new low level -- 27 -- in
   November, 1922.


   You see that Pierce Arrow, Chandler, and General
Motors all failed to make 1921 highs and at the end of 1922
were selling at low levels, while Studebaker, which made a
new high in the early part of 1922, was selling at a high
level in December, 1922. General Asphalt 1921 high 78;
rallied to 73 in 1922 and failing to reach the high of 1921,
showed that it was meeting with heavy selling, because it
remained a long time around high levels; then declined to
lower prices than it made in 1921. This is the thing to watch.
When stocks advance near old high levels and remain a long
time and fail to go through, distribution is taking place, and
as soon as they break out of the distributing zone, they
should be sold short. Traders who bought Asphalt, expect-
                                                                125

ing it to follow Pacific Oil, Mexican and Pan Pete, suffered
big losses, because the other stocks showed that they were
in strong position, while General Asphalt showed that it was
in weak position.

  The Rubber and Sugar stocks all failed to cross the high
prices of 1921, and at the end of 1922 were selling at lower
levels. The Rubber stocks have recently (January, 1923)
started to advance, and if they cross the high levels of 1921
and 1922, they will then indicate higher prices and may
continue to advance while other groups of stocks decline.
Then, you should buy Rubbers and not sell them, expecting
them to follow stocks which made high levels and were dis-
tributed during 1922.


   BUYING OR SELLING AFTER A STOCK SHOWS CHANGE IN
                        TREND

  After accumulation or distribution takes place, a stock
moves into new territory, either high or low, showing that
the stock has been absorbed or distributed and that a new
move is starting.

  Refer to Chart No. 9 on Corn Products. Note that
after the stock halted at 108 and remained for several weeks
in a narrow range, while it was being absorbed between 106
and 108, fluctuations were very narrow and you would not be
able to make much money trading in it. But if you bought
it after it crossed 108, which showed that the trend had
again turned up, you would have been able to make 20 points’
profit in less than 6o days.

  Now, the same condition will develop in the opposite
direction. Since September, 1922, the stock has been holding
for over four months between 124 and 134 and you would
only be able to make small profits trading in and out. After
it breaks 124 it will show plainly that the trend has turned
down, and if you sell short then, you no doubt will be able
to make quick profits.

  The big profits are made in the runs between accumula-
tion and distribution. Therefore, you make more money
by waiting until a stock plainly declares its trend than by
getting in before it starts. It is just like a race. It often
126

takes fifteen or twenty minutes to get the horses away from
the post, but once “they’re off” the race is over in two
minutes. It is the getting ready that takes the time, the run
is soon made, once the firing line is crossed. What difference
does it make whether you buy a stock 10, 20 or 30 points
above the bottom so long as you make profits?

  The same with selling short. It makes no difference how
much the price is down from the top. When it breaks out
of the distributing zone, it is a safe short sale and you will
make quick profits. Get the idea of prices out of your head.
Forget about the bottoms and tops; trade to make profits,
not to try and catch the bottom or top eighth. The insiders
do not do it, and you can not hope to do better than the man
who makes the market.
                        CHAPTER XXIII

     TOPS AND BOTTOMS ON RAILROAD STOCKS

  In another chapter I have told you about stocks and
groups of stocks which are leaders, and you should always
follow the leaders, either up or down. From 1896 to 1909,
the railroad stocks were the leaders, and banks discriminated
against industrial stocks in loans and accepted the rails as
gilt-edge securities.

  Note on Chart No. 11 the low price of the Dow-Jones
20 Rails was 42 in August, 1896. After a long advance, they
made the first important top in April, 1899, when prices
reached 87, although they were within 1 to 2 points of this
same level in February and March. A big reaction occurred
in May, which carried prices down to 78. A rally followed
in September, bringing prices up to 86, within 1 point of the
April top. They met with stubborn resistance at this level,
and declined to 73 in December, 1899, then rallied to 82 in
April, 1900, and again in June declined to 73, making a
double bottom or reaching the same price as made in
December.

  After this double bottom, a big advance started, which
did not culminate until May, 1901, when prices reached 118.
On May 9, 1901, the Northern Pacific corner took place,
which caused a panicky decline, average prices declining to
103. This was the first sudden big break in the bull market
and showed that it was over for the present, and that you
should then watch for a rally to sell on. A rally followed in
the latter part of May and in June, carrying prices near the
top of May. Then a decline to 105, where prices held for
four months, just above the level made in the May panic.
Here accumulation took place again, while stocks were mov-
ing over a narrow range.

 Then followed a long slow, advance to September, 1902,

                                 127
132

when prices reached 129, where they made a sharp top which
was followed by a rapid decline to 89 in September, 1903.
Note that accumulation occurred from September, 1903 to
June, 1904 at which time the bull market was resumed.
Stocks rallied to 127 in April, 1905, this price being within
2 points of the high level of September, 1902. A rapid
decline carried prices down to 115 in June. Then they
advanced to 138 in January, 1906, which was the highest
in history and Averages were up 96 points in ten years.
Prices started to decline and following the San Francisco
earthquake, declined to 120 in May, 1906. Then they ad-
vanced to 138, in September, making the same top as in
January.

  They remained around this same level with fluctuations
narrow, until January, 1907 when they broke out of the
distributing zone, and after such a long period of advancing
markets, with distribution which had lasted for over a year,
it was but natural that a drastic decline should follow. A
silent panic occurred on March 14, 1907, carrying prices
down to 98. This was one of the most rapid declines that
has ever occurred on the Stock Exchange. After this, a
sharp rally followed; then another decline, bringing prices
down to around the low levels of March 14, and in some
cases, stocks selling lower. After this, the market rallied
and held up until August, but was very dull on the rallies,
which showed that liquidation had not been completed.
Liquidation started again in September, 1907, and finally
wound up with a panicky decline in November, when the
Averages reached 82, which was 56 points down from the
high of the early part of the year.

  Accumulation took place until March, 1908, when the
bull market started again, which culminated in October, 1909
with prices at 134, within 4 points of the highest in history.
Here they met with resistance, and distribution took place
over a narrow range, lasting about six months. The decline
started in 1910, and wound up with a sharp break in July,
which carried the Averages to 106. This was a sharp bot-
tom, and prices rebounded quickly. They continued upward
until July 1911 when the Averages reached 124. Then
fluctuations became narrow at the top, and the market was
                                                                133

very inactive for several months. A sharp decline occurred
in August and September, carrying prices down to 110. Then
followed a slow advance to August, 1912, when prices
reached 124, the same top as 1911. Here they made a flat
top from August to October, 1912. Then declined to 100
in June, 1913. The market was narrow and inactive, and
slowly worked up to 110, making a slightly lower level than
April, 1913. There was a small rally and a narrow market
in May and June, 1914, and in the early part of July the
big decline started, which wound up with a big break after
the war broke out and caused the Stock Exchange to close
on July 3oth.

  The Exchange opened again on December 15, 1914, and
the Averages declined to 87 in December. They remained
in a narrow range around the same level until March, 1915.
Here an advance started, and prices reached 108 in Novem-
ber, 1915, finally working up to 112 in October, 1916. Note
that this was the year of distribution in the rails, and that
they only got three points higher in 1916 than the top of
1915, while industrials at the same time were having a big
advance because war conditions were favoring industrials
and working against the rails.

  1917 was a year of big declines and great liquidation in
the rails. Prices made the lowest for many years, declining
to 71 in December, when the Government was forced to
take over the railroads, which brought about a sharp rally
in stocks. The averages advanced to 93 in November, 1918.
Then came the end of the war, and they declined to 81 in
January, 1919. Then followed the greatest industrial boom
in the history of Wall Street, but rails failed to have any big
advances, and only reached 92 in July and August, which
was 1 point lower than the high prices of 1918; while indus-
trial stocks advanced over 20 points higher than the 1918
prices, because industrials were now leaders and the rails
were the laggards. In February, 1920, the rails declined
to a new low level, making 68. After this, the rails and
industrials began to work closer together. The rails rallied
to 85 in November, 1920; then followed a long decline which
carried them down to 66 in June, 1921, which was the lowest
price at which the Averages had sold since 1897.
134

  From this level, they advanced to 93 in August, 1922,
which was the same top made in 1918. They remained at this
same level during August, September, and October, 1922,
holding in a narrow range while distribution was taking place.
In November, they broke out of the distributing zone and
declined to 82 on November 27. Since that time they have
rallied to around 87 (January, 1923) where they are very
dead and inactive, and meet selling on every rally. Every
indication now seems to point to liquidation but the proper
thing to do is to wait and see whether they become active
and advance above the level of 86 or start activity on the
down side and break under the level of 82 made in Novem-
ber. It is my opinion that before rails cross the 1922 highs
again, they will sell at very much lower prices.
                         CHAPTER XXIV

    BOTTOMS AND TOPS ON INDUSTRIAL STOCKS

 Chart No. 12 shows the tops and bottoms on the Dow-
Jones 20 Industrials from 1896 to December, 1922.

  Note that the low in August, 1896 was 29. They rallied
to 77 in April, 1899, where distribution started; declined to
68 in May; then rallied to 77 in September, 1899, making
a double top; declined to 71 in October; rallied to 76 in
November, failing to make the old top by one point. This
was really a triple top, and failing to cross it showed big
distribution and indicated a long decline to follow.

  Prices declined to 58 in December; then rallied to 68,
which was the bottom of the distributing zone. In 1903
during November and December, prices declined to 42 1/2,
then rallied to 50 in January, 1904, and held in a 4-point
range until June. They showed that accumulation was taking
place, and that stocks were getting ready to advance, al-
though at this time railroad stocks were the leaders. In
July, 1904 the advance started, and continued, subject to
minor interruptions, until January, 1906, where final top was
made, prices reaching 103. This was a sharp top, and a
decline followed, bringing prices down to 86 in July, 1906.
They rallied to 96 in August and remained around the same
level in a 4-point range, for about six months, until January,
1907. This showed big distribution in a narrow range and
the long length of time indicated a big decline to follow.

  1907 was a bear year in industrials as well as rails, and
they declined to 53 in November, making a sharp bottom, as
you will see from the chart. After this followed the long
advance to the top in August, 1909. The industrials were
now becoming more prominent, and were assuming the
leadership over rails. Prices reached 100 in August, making
a flat top, holding the same level for six months while dis-

                                  135
140

tribution was taking place. A decline started in January,
1910. Prices reached the low of 74 in July, 1910.

  Then followed a slow rally, making top in July, 1911
and at the top the market remained for two months, very
narrow and inactive, while distribution was taking place.
You have often heard it said “Never sell a dead market,”
but you must consider whether prices are near the top or
bottom when they become dead. If they get very narrow
and dead near the top, it is a sign of decreased buying power,
and only a question of time when something will occur to
cause buyers to become sellers and force stocks down. The
break started in August, and declined to 73 in September,
1911, making a double bottom.

  Then followed a slow advance to October, 1912, the
first top being made in June and the market holding about
six months for distribution. Then followed a decline to June,
1913, when Averages reached 73, making a triple bottom,
or practically the same level as 1910 and 1911.

  In 1914 the top was made from February until July, in
a very narrow market. Stocks would rally and become dead
and inactive, which showed that the buying power was not
there, and that liquidation was taking place. In the early
part of July the decline started. Activity was on the down
side, and prices broke under the distributing level. The
Exchange closed July 30, and when it opened in December,
prices declined to 53, making the same level as in 1907, or
a double bottom, although it was seven years apart.

  Prices fluctuated in a narrow range until the spring of
1915, when the industrial stocks led the advance, with “war
babies” coming to the front every day. The Averages
reached 99 in December, 1915, which was the first top in
the great war boom. They declined to April, 1916, making
85. Here accumulation took place, and they rallied rapidly
to November, 1916, when the Averages reached a new high
for their history -- 110. From this top there was a sharp
decline, and the real distribution took place under 100, or
after stocks were down 10 points from high levels. I have
explained something in regard to this in a previous chapter,
about where sharp tops are made and distribution takes place
after the first big decline.
                                                               141

  In 1917 prices declined and reached the first low, 87, in
February. They rallied from this level but were very inactive
on the rallies. Stocks looked very cheap when compared to
the high levels of 1916 and the public bought them. The
decline continued during 1917 and bottom was reached in
December, prices making 66. This was a sharp bottom.
Then accumulation occurred after prices were up 10 points.
The chart will show you that the accumulation took place
between 76 and 84, so you see that the same rule applies --
distribution takes place below the level of sharp tops and
accumulation several points above the level of sharp bottoms.

  1918 was a year of narrow fluctuations. Prices had
advanced to 88 in November, 1918, when peace was de-
clared. Then followed a quick decline to 8o, where you
will see that prices held for four months in a 4-point range,
making the same low level every month. This was the second
stage of accumulation and showed that it was getting ready
for a big advance, which started in February, 1919. You
will find my Annual Forecast for 1919 in the back of this
book. You can see how accurately I foretold the big advance
in Oil Stocks and Industrials for that year. 1919 recorded
one of the greatest advances in the history of the Stock
Exchange, the industrial stocks rising nearly 40 points on
Averages in nine months’ time. Of course, many individual
stocks had advanced from 50 to 150 points. The volume
of sales was the greatest of any year on the Stock Exchange,
the average daily sales running close to two million shares
per day during August, September and October. In the early
part of November, the advance culminated with a sharp
top. There had been only two reactions during the year,
one occurring in June and the other in August. Distribution
took place on the way up, because the public was buying
stocks regardless of price, name, previous condition or future
possibilities. They were buying on hope, believing that the
Bull market would never end, but it did, suddenly and unex-
pectedly, as all highly manipulated market movements do.

 A panicky decline followed in November, 1919, and
prices declined to around 103. They rallied and held in a
narrow range, making 109 in January, 1920. A second
period of distribution took place in January, which was fol-
142

lowed by a severe decline in February, carrying prices down
to 90. In April the Supreme Court handed down the deci-
sion declaring stock dividends non-taxable. This caused an-
other wild wave of speculation, with many companies
declaring stock dividends and the public buying everything
on hope. The Averages reached 105 and from this level the
long decline started, which continued until December 21,
1920, winding up with a three million share day, and the
Averages at 67, the same level as they made in 1917. Read
my Annual Forecast in the back of the book, and see how
accurately I foretold the 1920 market and forecasted the
panicky decline to the exact date.

  After this decline, a sharp rally followed to May, 1921,
when prices reached 81. The market became slow and dead
at the top, showing that the supply of stocks was greater
than the demand. Liquidation broke out again around the
10th of May, and prices continued to decline until liquidation
was completed in August and averages had reached 64. This
was the third zone below normal, or the zone of extreme
depression, and the place for accumulation and buying. It
was exactly opposite to the feverish zone of distribution of
October, 1919.

  After the August, 1921, break, a slow rally started. See
my 1921 Stock Forecast in the back of this book. It called
the exact top for May and the bottom in August, 1921.

  Reactions were very small and stocks continued upward
to October, 1922, when prices reached 103.42, where dis-
tribution started. The break which occurred in November,
1922, carried prices down to 92, which was 4 points under
the bottom of the distributing zone. My 1922 Stock Fore-
cast, issued in December, 1921, called final high for October
to the exact date and predicted the decline for November,
1922.

  You can see from the top that by January, 1923, dis-
tribution has been going on for about six months. They
rallied to just above 99 in January, 1923, and it is the writer’s
opinion that the high prices made in October, 1922, will not
be exceeded by three points until Averages decline to 75 or
lower. Distribution will take place on every rally in the
Spring of 1923, and the Fall of 1923 will witness panicky
conditions in the stock market and drastic declines.
                          CHAPTER XXV

      ACCUMULATION OF LOW-PRICED STOCKS

  If you go back over past history, you will find that most
of the stocks that have sold at very high levels, i.e., anywhere
from $100 to $300 per share, at some time in the early stage
of their career have sold at very low levels, and that the
accumulation of many stocks which have become leaders has
taken place below $25 per share. For example: See Chart
No. 9 on Corn Products.


                          CORN PRODUCTS

  In the great bull market of 1906, Corn Products sold at
28, which was the high price of that year. In the bear
market of 1907 it declined to 8. In the bull market of 1909
it advanced to 26, failing by two points to reach the high
price made in 1906. In 1911 it declined to 10 and in 1912
it advanced to 22, again failing to reach the high level of
1909. In 1914 it declined to 7, which was the lowest in
its history. In 1915 it recovered rapidly and advanced to
21. In 1916 it advanced to 29, which was the highest price
of its history up to that time, and one point higher than the
level of 1906. 1917 was a bear year and many stocks sold
lower than they had for many years, but Corn Products only
reacted to 18 and before the end of 1917 had sold above 29,
the highest of 1916. The stock being in new territory, and
higher than it had sold for ten years, showed that accumula-
tion had been completed and that a big advance was likely.
Therefore the logical course to pursue was to follow the
advance as long as the trend showed up.

  It advanced to 37 late in 1917, thus making a new high
in a bear year and showing that there was buying power
enough to carry this stock up against the trend of the general

                                  143
144

market. Now, when a stock has never sold higher than a
certain figure for a number of years, a lot of people think
that when it reaches that level or gets any higher, that it is
due for a reaction. This is a great mistake. 1918 was a
year of irregularities and reactionary price movements. It
could not be termed a bull year. Yet Corn Products advanced
to 50, and when other stocks suffered a big decline in January
and February, 1919 this stock only reacted to 46, or four
points from the high.

  Then the 1919 bull campaign started and Corn Products
began to advance. It continued to make higher tops and
higher bottoms, showing that demand was greater than
supply, advancing to 99 in 1919, and in the spring of 1920
to 105. When it reached this level, if you look at a weekly
and monthly chart, you will see that distribution started. In
fact, it made a sharp top, reacted quickly to 88, then rallied
to 97, where it showed weakness. After that the trend was
down, and it declined to 61 in December, 1920; advanced to
76 in March, 1921; declined to 59 in June, 1921.

  The fact that it only declined two points below the low
level made in 1920 and showed accumulation around this
level, it could naturally be considered in strong bull position
and should be bought with a stop under this low level. It
advanced to 68, reacted to 64, held in a narrow range be-
tween 64 and 68 while accumulation was taking place during
July and August, 1921. Then the advance started. It con-
tinued upward with very little reactions until it reached 1o5,
the high price of 1920. Of course, around this level it met
with heavy selling because a lot of people thought if it
reached the highest price of its history, it was high enough.

  It advanced to 108 in March, 1922, which was three
points above the highest price made in 1920, and showed
that somebody was still buying the stock, although it was
meeting with heavy selling. It declined to 99 in May, 1922
and around this level became very inactive and the volume
of sales was very small, which showed that selling pressure
was decreasing. It started to advance slowly, and gradually
began to make higher resistance levels, until in August, 1922
it advanced above the high price of 108 made in March,
1922. After five or six months’ time, and only reacting nine
                                                            145

points, then making a new high level, showed plainly that the
trend was up and that the stock should be bought and fol-
lowed up as long as it showed an upward trend.

  It advanced to 134 during the week of October 21, 1922.
After that it reacted to around 124; then rallied five or six
times up to around 132-133, but failed to make the high
price of October 21st. It remained in this trading range
between 134 and 124, from October, 1922 until the date
of this writing, January 12, 1923. This shows that it has
reached the level where it is meeting with great resistance
and heavy selling, and the proper thing to do is to be out of
long stock, and short. If it breaks under the level of 124,
it will show plainly that distribution has been completed, and
you should then follow the downward trend until it reaches
a level where it meets with resistance and shows accumulation.
                         CHAPTER XXVI

             HOW TO WATCH INVESTMENTS

  A lot of people handle their investments the same as
they do their health. They never consult a doctor until they
are seriously ill; then it may be too late, or the expense will
be ten times greater than if they had consulted a doctor and
protected themselves against future ailments. No matter if
you hold gilt-edge bonds or preferred stocks as an invest-
ment, they should be looked over by an expert at least once
a year to see if there are any symptoms of weakness develop-
ing in the list. Investments should be sold out on the first
sign of a change in conditions, and you should not wait until
everybody is selling and you are forced to sell on a liquidating
market. Very few people are willing to pay even $25 a year
to have their investments looked over, and receive real expert
scientific advice, but after they have losses of thousands of
dollars, and it is too late for expert advice to help them
much, then they are willing to pay hundreds of dollars for
helpful information. It is the old, old story of locking the
stable door after the horse is stolen.


                           FRENCH BONDS

  It is impossible for the best human judgment to pick a
number of stocks or bonds that will all prove sound. It is
also impossible to run any business without expense, and the
expense in the investment business is occasionally taking a
quick loss. When you find that one of your investments
shows weakness, sell on the first indication -- do not hesitate.
Many people bought French 7 1/2's and 8’s above 100 because
they pay 7 or 8 per cent. The very fact that they pay an
abnormal yield on investments should have shown the man
who thinks, that there was something wrong with the credit

                                  146
                                                             147

of the French Government; otherwise they would not have
to pay such high interest if their security was gilt-edge.
When these bonds declined to 99 it was a danger signal and
they should have been sold out immediately, but many in-
vestors did not sell for the very reason that they yield a high
return. Now the 8’s have declined to 93 and the 7 1/2’s
around 89, and there is no prospect in sight for them going
back to par any time soon, so the man who bought because
he received a higher return for his money, now has a shrink-
age in his capital of 7 to 10 per cent, which eats up a lot of
interest.


               CHANGING TO SPECULATIVE ISSUES

  It is always better to be safe than sorry. Many large
estates have been wiped out because the younger generation
refused to sell the investments that their fathers made and
switch into something better just as soon as the investments
began to show shrinkage. Many men leave fortunes to their
wives in gilt-edge investments which are paying 4 1/2 to 5 1/2
per cent. They have bought them for safety, for the protec-
tion of principal and not for large yield. A woman wants
a large income so that she can live on it. She will sell out
gilt-edge investments and buy speculative issues because the
return is large and often in a few years she finds herself not
alone without an income, but with her capital half wiped out.
The gambling instinct is so strong in human beings that they
never look for safety until it is too late. They listen to the
story of bond salesmen -- get-rich-quick schemers who play
on their hopes and get them to change from safe investments
into gambling speculative investments, and in 90 per cent of
the cases, the result is losses.


             DISCRIMINATION AND INVESTIGATION

  At the present time, when we are in a reconstruction
period after the greatest war the world has ever seen, dis-
crimination is more necessary than ever, and every investor
needs the service of an expert. Many people have the idea
that if they buy bonds which are sold by J. P. Morgan & Co.,
148

Kuhn Loeb & Company or the National City Bank, they are
buying something gilt-edge and guaranteed. These banks
are in the business of selling bonds for a commission. They
do not guarantee them, but they do make money on every
bond they sell. Yet, the buyer may never see a profit. The
very best houses must sometimes handle issues which are un-
sound, and you must not buy bonds without investigating
their merits just because they are sold by a house with a long
established reputation. The French Government issues were
all floated here by our highest class bankers, but that has not
prevented these bonds from shrinking in value, and the
bankers who sold you the bonds made no guarantee that they
would support the market and prevent a decline.


                          LIBERTY BONDS

  The best securities are bound to shrink in value at times.
It is a question of Supply and Demand. The U. S. Govern-
ment is the soundest government in the world today, and it
was at the end of the war in 1918. Then why did Liberty
Bonds decline to around 85? Because there were billions
of them in the hands of the public, and when the depression
of 1920 and 1921 set in, the people were loaded with bonds
and short of cash. Therefore, when they needed cash, the
only way to get it was to sell Liberty Bonds. The result
was that everybody were sellers and there were very few
buyers, and bonds declined. When they had been absorbed
at low levels by large investors, they gradually worked back
to 100 again.


                             ATCHISON

  A lot of people have the idea that there is such a thing
as investments being so good that they cannot decline. They
forget the fact that Supply and Demand govern prices and
that there must be a buyer for every seller. If buyers are
scarce and sellers are numerous, stocks or bonds go down.
Suppose you were carrying Atchison Railway in 1915. It
advanced to 111, reacted to around 105, rallied to around
108, where you can see from a chart it held during 1916 and
                                                                 149

part of 1917 without getting above this level. Here was an
indication which showed plainly that the supply of the stock,
after it made 111, was greater than the demand, and as the
yield on the money invested was small compared to the high
interest rate, the investor should have sold out Atchison and
waited for a favorable opportunity to repurchase. On the
break in the latter part of 1917 it declined to 75. During
1920 it held around 76, making the same level four or five
times, which showed that it was receiving support and had
reached a level where conditions were just opposite to what
they were when the price was around 108. The demand was
greater than the supply, and the stock stopped going down.
After all the stock was absorbed at a low level, it started to
advance, and again reached 108 in September, 1922, where
it held for a short time without crossing the old level of
1916. This was the place to again sell out investments and
wait. Atchison then declined to 98 in November, 1922.
When it reaches a level where the demand is greater than
the supply, it will again be time to buy. This may be several
years off yet.


                    VALUE OF EXPERT ADVICE

  You should keep a chart of all of your investments. It
requires but little time to keep up a monthly high and low
chart and it will show you when you should get out. If you
are not sure of your own judgment, secure the services of
a reliable expert whom you can depend upon. A lot of people
feel that they cannot afford to pay out $100 to $200 each
year for expert advice to protect their investments. If they would
only look at it from a sensible standpoint, they would
realize that they cannot afford to be without expert advice.
Consider the price of my service -- $ 100.00 per year for my
Annual Forecast on Stocks, together with a supplement issued
once a month or more often. You have the privilege of
asking my opinion at any time on any investment you hold
and securing advice on how to switch your investments so
that they will prove profitable and safe. The cost per year
is one point on one hundred shares of stock. Many people
carry thousands of shares and let their investments shrink
150

thousands of dollars, when by paying $100.00 per year for
my service, they would be able to save hundreds of times the
amount they pay me.

  Expert service works both ways. It not only protects
you against loss, but helps you secure your profits at the right
time. If you saw a plain indication that your health was
breaking down, you would not wait until your case was hope-
less, but would secure expert medical advice at once and be
willing to pay a good price for it. Your investments, in one
way, are more vital than your health, because if your invest-
ments shrink to a level where they cause you to worry, you
are sure to undermine your health. I have seen hundreds
of cases in Wall Street where men lost their money, then
lost their health. Therefore, expert scientific advice per-
forms a double service -- provides protection for your health
and your capital.
  In Wall Street opportunities come more often than in
any other business, but you must have knowledge in order to
recognize them.


                          OPPORTUNITY

They do me wrong who say I come no more,
 When once I knock and fail to find you in;
For every day I stand outside your door
 And bid you wake and rise to fight and win.

Wail not for precious chances passed away,
 Weep not for golden ages on the wane!
Each night I burn the records of the day;
 At sunrise every soul is born again.

Laugh like a boy at splendors that have fled,
 To vanished joys be blind and deaf and dumb;
My judgments seal the dead past with its dead,
 But never bind a moment yet to come.

Though deep in mire wring not your hands and weep;
 I lend my arm to all who say, “I can!”
No shame-faced outcast ever sank so deep
 But yet might rise and be again a man!

Dost thou behold thy lost youth all aghast?
 Dost reel from righteous retribution’s blow?
Then turn from blotted archives of the past
 And find the future’s pages white as snow.

Art thou a mourner? Rise thee from thy spell,
 Art thou a sinner? Sins may be forgiven,
Each morning gives thee wings to flee from hell,
 Each night a star to guide thy feet to heaven.

                                 -- WALTER MALONE.




                                 151
    TRUTH
      OF
THE STOCK TAPE
A STUDY OF THE STOCK AND COMMODITY MARKETS
    WITH CHARTS AND RULES FOR SUCCESSFUL
            TRADING AND INVESTING

                       BY

          WILLIAM D. GANN

                IN FOUR BOOKS
                    EMBRACING
          The Preparation and Knowledge
          Required; Methods of Operating
           And Determining Position of
             Stocks and Commodities


   FINANCIAL GUARDIAN PUBLISHING CO.
   91 WALL STREET         NEW YORK.




     This E-Book is not to be sold.
          It is a free educational service
                in the public interest
                    published by

          Gann Study Group
                            BOOK IV

                       COMMODITIES
  “There is a principle which is a bar against all information,
which is proof against all argument, and which can not fail to keep
a man in everlasting ignorance! That principle is condemnation
before investigation.” -- SPENCER.
                               _______

                        CHAPTER XXVII

                HOW TO TRADE IN COTTON

  The cotton market offers good opportunities every year
for making profits both as an investment and as a speculative
proposition. Trading in future options is just as legitimate
as buying and selling stocks. It is not necessary to buy the
spot cotton outright, carry it in the warehouses, pay insurance
and storage, for if spot cotton is going up or down, future
options will fluctuate more than the cash article, and there is
no expense in carrying futures outside of the margin require-
ments.

  The course of cotton prices is based on supply and de-
mand, and it is much easier to form a correct judgment on
the cotton market than it is on the stock market, on account
of there being so many stocks and different groups of stocks
which cause a mixed trend, some stocks declining while others
advance. With cotton it is different. If one option goes
up, they all go up. You might be right on a certain group
of stocks and yet pick the laggard to buy, and not make any
money; but with cotton you could not miss it; if you were
right on the trend you would make money. A man who
trades in cotton with the proper capital and uses stop loss
orders to protect his capital and also to protect his profits
will be able to make more money than he will trading in
stocks, especially when the cotton market is active.

 The great trouble with the people in the Southern states,
where cotton is grown, is that they are always bulls. They

                                 152
                                                              153

never see but one side of the market and are always holding
on and hoping for it to go higher, no matter how high the
price advances. For this reason, 90 per cent of them lose
money simply because they are unwilling to see both sides
of the market. They ignore the bear side and refuse to
sell short in a bear market. I have known many traders to
buy cotton when it was high and lose anywhere from
$1,ooo to $2,000 on 100 bales by simply sitting and
watching it decline day after day, and holding it for no other
reason than that they hoped it would go up. Remember my
rule -- When you have nothing else to hold on for but hope,
get out quick. Never trade without a reason. The time to
hold on is when the market is going in your favor and not
against you.

  When cotton is at extreme high levels and starts down-
ward, it goes down fast and continues down for a long time,
as past records will show. In the spring of 1920, cotton
was selling around 38 to 37 cents per pound, and in Decem-
ber same year, it sold below 15 cents per pound. Now,
what chance did a man have who was long of the market
and held on and hoped for a rally? The decline continued,
subject to rallies, until it got below the 11-cent level in June,
1921. Of course, the same rule applies to a man who sells
short against the trend and holds on and hopes. Cotton
was selling around 13 cents per pound in the middle of
August, 1921. The advance started and in thirty days it
advanced to around 21 1/2 cents per pound. Therefore, the
only thing to do in trading is to limit losses and go with the
trend. It is easy enough to make up a loss of 20 or 30 points,
but it is hard to make back losses of 200 to 400 points. Let
your rule be: Cut short your losses and let your profits run.
But remember, profits must be followed up with a stop loss
order, because it is just as foolish, after you have large
profits, to let them get away from you, as it is to lose part
of your capital by not protecting it.


              REPORTS, NEWS, RUMORS AND VIEWS

 Learn to discount reports which come from the farmers.
They are honest, but they have cotton to sell and are always
154

hoping for higher prices. They go to the extreme either
way. If crops are bad, they exaggerate the damage. If
crops are good, they are likely to become too hopeful and
exaggerate the good condition. The man who produces the
cotton to sell and the spinner who buys it are diametrically
opposed to one another. Both are working for their own
interests and you can not blame them, but you must discount
their reports and opinions.

  The tape tells you the consensus of opinion and reveals
the predominance of the opposing forces and shows the trend
according to supply and demand. Ignore the news, reports,
opinions and views of everyone if it disagrees with what the
chart and tape shows, for supply and demand must govern
in the end, and if the selling power is greater than the buying,
prices will decline, regardless of bad crop news or anything
else. On the other hand, if the demand, or buying power,
exceeds the selling, prices will advance regardless of good
crop news. Of course, the general trend of the market does
not continue for long contrary to natural conditions, but sup-
ply and demand govern the prices and the market discounts
future events. Therefore, before you act too strongly on
any good or bad news, be sure that your chart, which is but
the reading of the tape and the correct interpretation of it,
confirms the news and shows that it is yet to be discounted.

  Do not try to trade too often. Jumping in and out of
the market confuses you; the more trades you make the more
chances you have for getting wrong, and increasing the per-
centage against you. You can always make profits if you
wait for the opportunities. If you make two or three con-
secutive trades and they go against you, and you have to take
losses, better quit for awhile and look on. Wait until your
judgment gets clear, and the market shows a definite trend.
You can always form a better judgment when you are out
of the market than when you are in it, because you are not
influenced by your hopes and fears.

  It makes no difference whether you trade on the New
Orleans Cotton Exchange, N. Y. Cotton Exchange or in
Liverpool, the trend of the market is always the same, once
it shows conclusively that a move has started. Liverpool
may go contrary to New York for one day, but it seldom
                                                             155

ever goes two. The same with New York or New Orleans.
They always run on a very close parallel.


                 AMOUNT OF CAPITAL REQUIRED

  One of the most important things that traders overlook
is the amount of capital required to make a success trading
in cotton. A lot of people think that when cotton is around
the normal level, from 9 cents to 12 cents per pound, that
$200 or $300 is enough capital to use in trading in 100
bales. This is financial suicide, because if a man loses
20 or 30 points on the first trade, his capital is crippled so
that he cannot make a second trade. A man should go into
the cotton market the same as he goes into any other busi-
ness, -- to make a success and not a gambling proposition. If
you make speculation or investment a business, you probably
will be able to accumulate a fortune over a number of years,
but if you go into it to gamble and expect to make it all on
one deal, you will lose all your money and have nothing left
but hope.

  When cotton is at an abnormal high level, as it has been
since 1915, selling between 15 cents and 40 cents per pound,
it requires a larger amount of capital because stop loss orders
will be caught more frequently and at the same time profits
will be much greater. I consider $2,000 the amount of
capital that should be used for trading in 100 bale lots.
Nothing less is safe. This money is not to be used to put
up on 100 bales and hold it if it starts going against you.
It is for the purpose of paying several small losses and still
have capital enough left to continue to trade until you hit it
right and begin to make big profits.


          HOW STOP LOSS ORDERS SHOULD BE USED

  In normal markets, when fluctuations are narrow, you
should use a stop loss order not more than 20 points away.
In very wild active markets, where fluctuations are wide, you
should use a stop loss order about 40 points away, but a risk
of $200 should be the maximum on any one deal. If
your capital is $2,000 and you make five trades and lose
half of your capital and then make one trade which shows
156

a profit of 200 points, you would be even. Most people
trade the other way -- They take 20 to 40 points’ profit and
200 to 300 points’ losses. There is no chance of beating the
cotton market that way. Of course, before you make a trade,
you should try to determine the trend and be as near right
as possible, but if you see that you are wrong, there is one
sure way to play safe and that is get out at the market or
place a stop loss order for your protection which will auto-
matically put you out.

  Once you make up your mind and place a stop loss order,
do not cancel it, or change it to where you have a greater
loss if it is caught. In 99 cases out of 100, you will be wrong
when you place yourself in a position to take a greater loss
than you first decided on. It may be well enough some times
to cancel orders for taking profits if the market is going your
way, but never cancel an order to stop a loss. The sooner
a loss is stopped the better both for your capital and for
your judgment. As long as you stay in the market and a
trade goes against you, your judgment gets worse all the
time; in fact, you have no judgment. It is simply a big hope
that the market will turn and go your way.


                         HOW TO PYRAMID

  In rapid markets successful pyramiding can be carried
on. Of course, the condition of the market has to deter-
mine how close pyramids can be made safely. As a rule,
after you buy 100 bales, you should not buy the second lot
until the market has moved 6o points in your favor. Then
place a stop loss order on your 200 bales so that if the stop
is caught you will not lose as much money as your original
risk on the first 100 bales.

  We will assume that on the first 100 bales, you place a
stop loss order 40 points away, which would be a loss of
$200. Now, when you buy or sell the second 100 bales,
place a stop loss order 40 points away on 200 bales. If the
stop is caught, you will lose 40 points on the last 100 bales,
but will make 20 on the first 100 bales, which places you in
a better position than if the first trade had gone against you.
If the market continues to move in your favor and your stop
                                                           157

loss order is not caught, you can continue to buy or sell on
the way up or down, but don’t forget that the more the
market moves in your favor, the nearer the end of the move
is over, and buying must not be increased near the top after
a long move, nor selling increased near the bottom after a
long decline.


              STRADDLES OR HEDGING ON COTTON

  Many cotton traders get the idea that they can sell one
option and buy another, thereby making a straddle which
will work closer together and show them a profit. In nine
cases out of ten, it works exactly opposite, and instead of a
profit the result is a big loss. If you cannot form a judgment
of the trend of the market, then do not try to play both
sides at the same time. Something always happens to upset
all calculations when traders figure out a dead sure cinch on
a straddle. As a trader once said to me, “My broker recom-
mended something safe and sure -- a good straddle -- and I
got on for a joy ride and the straddle tore both my legs off.”
This is the way most straddles work out.

  Another great mistake that traders make is that when
they buy one option and it starts to go against them, they
refuse to see that they are wrong and accept a loss, but sell
another option to hedge. Then they are both long and short
of the market, and they have to make two guesses as to
where they will get out right. It can not be done. They
invariably close the trade that shows a profit and hold the
one that shows a loss. In this way, they undo the wrong
side of the hedge. A man can not have a clear judgment
trying to play two sides of the market at the same time. It
is bad enough playing one side. Therefore, keep out of
hedges and straddles; try to determine the trend and fol-
low it.
                        CHAPTER XXVIII

      PROPER WAY TO READ THE COTTON TAPE

  The cotton market, as I stated before, is governed by
Supply and Demand. The only difference in reading the tape
on cotton and reading it on stocks is that the cotton tape
does not show the number of bales traded in on each sale.
This makes it a little difficult at times to determine the trend,
but while we do not know the amount of trading that is going
on, the fluctuations on the tape show very plainly whether
the volume is extra heavy or very small. The market does
not stand still on large buying or selling; it moves one
way or the other. Therefore the activity tells us whether
or not there is big business going on. When fluctuations are
very narrow and the market is dull and inactive, it shows that
the buying and selling is reduced to a small scale, and no
big move is indicated. Therefore, the only thing to do is to
watch and wait until you see activity start, and then go with it.

  The best way to read the cotton tape is the same as stocks
-- stay away from it; keep up a chart and read the tape
quietly, away from the influence of the broker’s office and
the gossip which is always prevalent there, that will mix your
judgment and invariably cause you to see things in the wrong
light.

  The cotton tape fools you just as often as the stock tape,
because local weather condition, good or bad, will cause quick
declines or advances which in no way change the major trend.
Yet, while looking at the tape, it will appear extremely strong
or weak and at the time you are convinced and act upon it.
Afterwards you find that you have bought at the top or sold
at the bottom, and then when the main trend is resumed, you
are wrong, and of course, the tape whispers hope and you
hold on. If you are away from it, you will make your trades
according to your rule, place your stop loss orders, and will

                                  158
                                                               159

not be influenced by hope or fear. The same rule applies
in narrow markets as in markets of wide fluctuations. Dis-
tribution has to take place before any important decline and
time has to be allowed for accumulation before any big ad-
vance takes place.


                   DISTRIBUTION OR TOP ZONE

  Chart No. 13 on cotton shows the October option from
November, 1919 to January, 1923, that is, all important
tops and bottoms, accumulation and distribution. Notice
that from December 6, 1919 to December 13, it declined
from 2970 to 2700. Then followed an advance up to 3140
on January 17, 1920; then a decline to 2760 on February 7.
The following week the market started to rally, after making
a higher bottom than the one in December. After that note
the progressive bottoms and tops. The advance continued,
every week making higher, until the week of April 17 it
advanced to 3715. The following week, ending April 24,
it advanced to 3725, which was the final high. It declined
quickly to 3430, but as distribution had not been completed,
it required time. The market fluctuated up and down over
a wide range, running up near the 37-cent level several
times. On May 22, it advanced to 3690; then declined to
3410, and on June 5 made the last rally to 3670. After
that it declined to 3170 on July 3; then rallied to 3530 on
July 24, but the decline on July 3, as you will see, had broken
under the distributing level, which indicated that the big
trend had turned down and that cotton was a short sale on
all rallies.


                            LIQUIDATION

  A rapid decline followed, which carried prices down to
2550 on September 4, 1920, followed by a rally to 2960
on September 8. Note the following week was a narrow
range. Then the decline started again, and drastic liquida-
tion continued, carrying prices down to 1440 during the week
ending November 27. After this the market rallied to 1650;
declined to 1360 on January 1, 1921, rallied to 1640 Janu-
162

ary 22, which was slightly above the top on December 18,
1920, where it again met selling. Notice that fluctuations
were narrowing down, but bottoms were getting lower and
tops also decreasing. The decline continued to March 5,
and prices reached 1200. A slow rally followed, prices get-
ting back, as you will see, to the 14-cent level during May
and early June. Then followed another decline down to
1120, making final low on June 25.


                          ACCUMULATION

  This was a sharp bottom and a quick rally followed,
which carried prices to 1320 on July 16, 1921; then a reac-
tion to 1190 on July 30; followed by a rally which carried
prices up to 1350 on August 6, for the first time since prices
broke under 30 cents per pound making a higher top after
an important new low level. Here the market rested for a
couple of weeks and then advanced above the August high.
This was the cue that the trend had changed and that it was
time to buy, because after several months of narrow fluctua-
tions at a low level, prices became very active on the advance.
Now when the 14-cent level was crossed, which was above
all of the tops made in May and June, it was another sure
indication that a big move was on, and this would be the
place to pyramid. Prices advanced rapidly in September, and
crossed the high levels around 1650 which were made in
December, 1920, and January, 1921. The advance was
rapid, and by September 10 had reached 2150. Then fol-
lowed a sharp reaction to around 1810. This is where your
stop loss order would have put you out when the reaction
started.

  You can not expect a big move upward or downward to
start until after accumulation or distribution has taken place.
The market halted for a few days above the 18-cent level,
then rallied right back to 2150. This would have been the
place to go short with a stop loss order 30 to 40 points above
the old top. After this, prices again declined to around
1930 where they became dull and narrow. The advance
started again and on October 8, 1921, rallied, mak-
ing a slightly higher top at 2175. A decline started and
                                                           163

continued downward till prices reached 1520 the week ending
November 19. Then a slow rally for several weeks, carry-
ing prices up to 1730 on January 7, 1922; followed by a
decline to 1510, making a double bottom against the low of
November 19, 1921. This would be your buying point with
a stop loss order 30 to 40 points under the previous bottom.


                SECOND STAGE OF BULL MARKET

  After this, a slow advance started. On February 25,
1922, prices were up to 1720, just under the high price made
in January. A reaction followed carrying prices to around
1640, where the market became very dull and narrow. In
this position you should wait and see whether prices broke
under the level made on the first reaction during the week
of March 4, or whether they advanced above the high price
made on January 7. During the week ending April 22, prices
crossed the high level made in January and March. This
showed that the trend had turned up, and as big accumulation
had taken place over a long period of time, you could expect
a big advance. The trend continued upward until June 24,
when prices reached 2290. Then followed a sharp decline
down to 2070; then a quick advance up to 2325. Here the
market became narrow and dull around the top levels and
you should have sold out and gone short.


                       RESISTANCE LEVEL

  A decline followed to 2090 during the week of July 29,
1922; then an advance to 2290 the week of August 5, fol-
lowed by a sharp decline down to 2000; then a rally to 2290
on August 26, prices again failing to get above the high
levels made in the early part of July and August. This in-
dicated distribution around the 23-cent level, and you should
sell out and go short with stop 30 to 40 points above old
tops. A decline followed, carrying prices down to 2000
again during the week ending September 30. 2000 was the
level reached on August 12, and you should cover shorts and
wait, or you could buy with a stop loss order 30 to 40 points
under this level, which was not broken.
164




                 THIRD STAGE OF BULL MARKET

  An advance started, the market moving up rapidly, carry-
ing prices above the 23-cent level, and over all of the tops
made in July and August. This was an indication that prices
were going higher. They reached 2400 the week of October
28, 1922. Then they declined to 2260; rallied to a new
high, 2415, but became narrow and dull and your stop loss
order would have been caught on a reaction. The next point
to watch was the last low level made on November 4. When
prices reached this level the week of December 9, you should
have bought with stop loss order 30 to 40 points lower and
your stop would not have been caught. After this, the ad-
vance was resumed, the market continuing to make higher
prices until the October option reached 2677 on January 24,
1923, the date of this writing. After distribution is com-
pleted at these high levels, a long decline will start which
will carry prices back to the 15-cent level or lower.

  This chart is all you need to learn about reading the tape
on fluctuations in cotton, because the same principles are fol-
lowed whether the market is a narrow normal market or an
abnormal market selling at extremely high prices. I have
simply used this chart to illustrate the principle of trading.
You can apply it to any other option or any period in the
past or future, and will find the market working out the same.

  It always pays to trade in the active options, and not
trade when they get too close to maturity. There is no use
taking chances on wild fluctuations and bad executions when
you get near delivery dates. Trade in the next option where
you can get good executions.
                         CHAPTER XXIX

     HOW TO DETERMINE A CHANGE IN TREND

  When the market is fluctuating in a very narrow range,
you should keep up a chart of every 10-point move made
during the day. In this way you will be able to see whether
accumulation or distribution is taking place, and discern
where resistance levels are formed. When it breaks out into
new territory you can then follow the trend. In very active
markets, when prices are high and the range wide, fluctua-
tions of 10 points mean very little, and you should keep a
chart of every move of 30 to 40 points made during the
day. In this way you will be able to locate the resistance
levels and tell when it breaks out of the zone of accumulation
or distribution.

  You should always keep a monthly, weekly, and daily
high and low chart on the active options you are trading in.
It will only require fifteen to twenty minutes each day to do
this and you will be well repaid for your trouble. The value
of charts is to determine where support is given and where
it is withdrawn; also where resistance is met on an advance
and where it is overcome, thus enabling you to buy and sell
and place a stop loss order as close as possible for your
protection.

  After violent fluctuations up or down, the market nearly
always comes to a standstill before the next move starts.
Buying and selling becomes about equal and the market nar-
rows down, then activity starts one way or the other and
you should go with it. Of course, there are bound to be
false moves at times. After accumulation is shown some
news may develop which will cause a sharp drive down,
followed by a quick rebound. Then if prices go above
the levels previously established, you can consider that the move
has reversed and that prices will continue upward.

                                  165
166

  Often when the first top is made, a lot of profit taking
will be encountered and a short interest will be built up.
Something will occur of a favorable nature to scare the shorts
and they will cover, forcing prices to a slightly higher level,
which weakens the technical position. Then a quick decline
will start, and if previous low levels are broken and the
market is very active on the decline, it will be an indication
that the trend has again turned down.

  Do not try to trade every day. Watch and wait for
opportunities and once you see you are in right and with
the trend of the market, follow it up or down until you see
a sign that the trend has reversed. Do not close your trade
just because you have a profit, but always be convinced by
the position of the chart and the general condition, that the
trend has changed. Never buy after a lot of very bullish
news comes out, nor sell after an extremely bearish report.
Both good and bad news is nearly always discounted. Of
course, consider whether the trend is up or down when good
or bad news is made known.

  Never try to start to pyramid after a long advance or
decline. The chances are against you. Begin pyramiding
when the trend first turns up or down after long moves.
When prices reach top or bottom, as a rule, a series of rapid
fluctuations take place; then the market gradually narrows
down and lays the foundation for another important move.

  If prices are high in the spring of the year, after a very
short crop, be very careful about buying, as a decline may
start which will discount a new crop six months later. The
same applies to selling short in the spring following a very
large crop. If prices are low, they have already discounted
the old crop, but have yet to discount the future, which may
be more favorable or unfavorable. After everybody knows
about a large crop, or an extremely short one, it is too late
to trade on it to advantage, except on rare occasions, and
your chart will always show you when these changes are
taking place at high or low levels.

  Do not sell cotton short just because it may be at a very
high price. Remember it can always go higher if conditions
are right. Neither buy it just because it is at a low level,
as it can always go lower. Never buck the trend, and do
                                                        167

not try to guess the top or bottom. Wait until the chart
shows you that the trend has turned. You can always make
plenty of money buying or selling after the trend is well
defined. The man who is in too big a hurry will lose money
and miss opportunities just as often as the man who is too
slow to act.
                         CHAPTER XXX

                      THE BOLL WEEVIL

  This little pest began his ravages on cotton in Texas
about twenty years ago. He has grown gradually worse,
working further north every year until he finally crossed the
Mississippi, doing great damage in the Southern cotton-grow-
ing states. Man has used all of his resources at hand to
destroy this little monster and at the present writing every-
one seems to think that the boll weevil is unconquerable. It
reminds me of 1893, when cotton was selling at 4 cents per
pound and people were disgusted and leaving their farms.
Uncle Henry said “Things are so bad that something has
to be done. You can’t beat that old head of a man for
figuring out things.” Of course, after fields were abandoned
and people went to the saw-mills to work, crops decreased
and prices went up. When conditions go to the extreme one
way or the other, something always happens and men get
busy, start thinking, and figure out a way to bring about a
change.

  In 1917, when the English and French had their backs
to the wall, and Germany was driving them rapidly back,
the time had come when something must be done, and it was
Uncle Sam’s boys that turned the tide and saved the day.
The American people, while extravagant, are resourceful in
many ways, and every age produces its genius. Whenever
we reach extremes and there is a great demand for brains,
they are always forthcoming. Millions of dollars have been
raised recently to solve the problem and exterminate the boll
weevil and there is no doubt but that the man of the hour,
some American genius, will appear with a new invention or
destructive poison, which will spell doom to the little boll
weevil. Then the bulls who were talking and hoping for
40 cents and 50 cents per pound on cotton, like the boll

                                 168
                                                           169

weevil, will pass away and the bears will again reign supreme
with cotton back in the “teens.”

  Cotton has held at high levels since 1915, when the
advance started from 7 cents per pound. I remember well
in the Fall of 1914 when the South was in deplorable con-
dition, and they were urging everyone “to buy a bale.” Cot-
ton could only be sold for about $30 per bale, but to save
the South, people were urged to buy it at $50 per bale.
I recall, one night I was in the McAlpin Hotel, and in the
lobby there was a bale of cotton with a big sign on it: “Buy
a bale and help save the South.” This was the extreme of
over-production -- big supply and small demand; of course,
helped by the outbreak of the war, which temporarily
stopped European buying.

  With cotton around 29 cents a pound, and having been
higher for many years, people are convinced that the boll
weevil is the “Kaiser” of the hour, and that cotton can never
be grown again in sufficient quantities to supply the demand.
But a change will come, and a supply in excess of the demand
will be produced. Why? Because there is big money in
growing cotton at 25 cents per pound. People will always
go into a business where money can be made, and over-
production is sure to come. It is the other extreme which
must follow the present conditions of small supply and large
demand. I have no hesitancy in predicting that a large crop
will be grown in 1923 and that before the spring of 1924
cotton will sell at the 15-cent level and in a few years will
again be below 10 cents per pound.

  When extremes occur and everybody is radically bearish
and can see no hope for prices ever advancing, or when prices
are abnormally high and everybody believes that conditions
are such that there is no hope for prices ever going down,
that is the time to go against human judgment and follow the
tape and charts, for they will point to the correct course of
prices according to the natural law of supply and demand.
                         CHAPTER XXXI

               WHEAT AND CORN TRADING

  The Wheat and Corn markets, like Cotton, are easier
to follow than stocks, as I have explained before, because
they are less confusing. Once you determine the trend, all
options move with it. If you buy or sell and are correct on
the trend, you will make profits; while in trading in stocks,
you might be correct on the trend of rails, for instance, but
if you picked the laggard stocks to buy or sell, you would
make very little money or might even have a loss, although
you were right on the trend. This can never happen when
trading in grain. Therefore, it is well to make a careful
study of the commodity market, as it offers several oppor-
tunities every year for making substantial profits when the
seasonal moves take place.


                       ABNORMAL MARKETS

  Remember that abnormal markets, with wide fluctua-
tions, only occur years apart. Therefore you must not expect
unreasonable profits in normal times. During the past seven
years, or since the war broke out, we have had abnormal
markets, and Wheat and Corn have made a wide range of
fluctuations, much greater than can ever be expected in
normal times. Many traders miss opportunities for fair
profits at the present time because they are looking and hop-
ing for war profits. There is no reason or sound basis for it.
They are simply gambling on hope.

  The price of Wheat, Corn and Oats is to a great extent
determined by the purchasing power of the dollar. The
farmer could make more money in 1895 and 1896 growing
Wheat and selling it at 6o cents per bushel, than he can
selling it today at $1.00 per bushel, because the purchasing

                                  170
                                                            171

power of the dollar has decreased. Labor and land values
have increased. When these conditions change and farm
labor is again back to normal, Wheat and Corn, as a natural
consequence, will seek lower levels. All of these factors
which govern natural conditions must be considered in judg-
ing the trend of a market.


                        CAPITAL REQUIRED

  The amount of capital depends upon whether Wheat is
in a narrow range in a normal year or making wide fluctua-
tions in an abnormal year. I consider that at least $2,000
should be used under any condition for trading in 5,000-
bushel lots. Then, if you limit your losses to 2 cents to 3
cents per bushel, you can make enough trades on your capital
to continue until your profits exceed your losses.

  Suppose you use a stop loss order about 4 points away,
which would mean a loss of $200 on each 5,000-bushel
lot. This would enable you to make ten trades on your
capital. If you made five trades and they all showed losses,
you would still have plenty of margin to make another trade,
and if you were successful in working with the trend, two
trades that are right should wipe out five losses.

  In a normal market you should use about $1,000 for
each 5,000 bushels of Corn that you trade in. Losses should
be limited to about 2 cents per bushel and stop loss orders
should never be more than 3 cents per bushel away. It is
not safe to risk more than 3 cents on any one trade. If you
are wrong, you should get out and wait.


              STOP LOSS ORDER FOR PROTECTION

  In trading in Wheat or Corn, stop loss orders should
always be used on every trade. The man who trades without
a stop loss order will sooner or later lose all his money. As
a rule, it never pays to risk more than 2 cents to 3 cents
per bushel on any one trade, and even in abnormal wild
markets not more than 5 cents per bushel. If you can not
guess the top or bottom within 5 cents per bushel, you are
wrong and should get out and wait for a change in trend.
172

  Never buck the trend, because your stop loss orders will
be caught more often. In a bull market, always buy on a
reaction; in a bear market, sell on rallies. Do not try to
guess when the market has reached top or bottom, but wait
until the tape shows it. Give the market time, and supply
and demand will tell you when the trend has definitely
changed.


                            PYRAMIDING

  In active markets, you can pyramid. The distance be-
tween your trades in pyramiding depends, of course, upon
the market. In a narrow market, you should not buy or sell
a second lot until after the first trade has moved 4 cents to
5 cents in your favor. In markets like we had during the
war, you can pyramid about every 7 cents to 10 cents per
bushel up or down. In normal markets, when Wheat moves
10 cents to 12 cents per bushel, you can always expect a
reverse move of from 3 cents to 5 cents per bushel. There-
fore, you have to be careful about buying or selling on the
bottom or top of a 10-cent move.

  Once the market gets away from the accumulation period
and the trend is well defined up or down, reactions are very
small. While accumulation or distribution is taking place,
you should trade for small scalping profits, and never attempt
to start to pyramid. Wait until the accumulation or the
distribution zones are cleared before buying or selling a
second lot.
                        CHAPTER XXXII

      JUDGING ACCUMULATION AND DISTRIBU-
                  TION ZONES

  The same rules that apply to stocks and cotton apply to
grain. Before any move of great importance or of long
duration takes place, time is required for accumulation or
distribution. In an active option, you should keep up a daily
high and low chart, a weekly, and a monthly chart. The
daily chart will enable you to tell when the minor moves
start, which only last for a few days; while the weekly and
monthly charts will enable you to determine when there is a
change in the major trend, and thus you can buy or sell in
time to catch the big moves.


              MONTHLY RANGE OF WHEAT PRICES

  Supply and demand govern the course of commodity
prices, but the tape, or a chart, which reveals the concen-
trated buying or selling power, will show which way the main
trend is moving.

  In 1894 and 1895 Wheat sold at 50 cents per bushel,
which was the lowest since the Civil War. Prices did not
advance rapidly but held at low levels for several years.
Note Chart No. 14 from 1895 to 1898. The bottom on
May Wheat was made at 56 cents in December, 1895; then
rallied to 68 cents in February, March and April, 1896;
declined to 56 cents in May, 1896, the same level made in
December, 1895. After that, prices crossed the 68-cent
level, which was above the distribution zone, and advanced
to 85 cents, where you will notice they made the same level
of tops for four months. Then followed a decline to 64
cents in April, 1897. After this, the advance started, which
carried prices above 85 cents, the highest they had been for
several years. Prices reached $1.00 per bushel in August,

                                 173
                                                           177

1897; then reacted to 88 cents, fluctuating in a narrow range
between 88 cents and 95 cents for four months. In Decem-
ber, 1897, prices advanced to 98 cents which was above the
high level for the past four months.

  Remember we have stated that before any big advance
or decline takes place, there must be a long period of time
for accumulation or distribution before the move starts.
From August, 1897, until February, 1898, accumulation had
taken place at a level above the high prices for several years
past. In other words, prices were maintained at a level
which was really a new high level of values, for a period
of seven months, and once the trend turned and advanced
above $1.00, it continued up to 1.09, showing a big move
was on. During the month of March, 1898, trading was
in a narrow range between 1.07 and 1.02 for the May
Option, but every indication showed that the trend was up.
Then the big advance started which carried May Wheat to
1.85 in May, 1898. This was the Leiter Corner. Mr.
Leiter had accumulated a large line of Wheat but was unable
to sustain prices at a high level, with the result that the
Corner collapsed and Wheat immediately broke back below
$1.00 per bushel.

  In September, 1898, notice that May Wheat again de-
clined to around 62 cents per bushel. It held for three
months around this level and in January, 1899, advanced to
79 cents. After that the market was a narrow, normal affair
and prices again advanced to around 79 cents in July and
September, 1899; then declined to 64 cents in March, April
and May, 1900, where you can see that the fluctuations nar-
rowed down to 3 or 4 cents per month.


                           SWING CHART

  After that followed a long period of narrow fluctuations,
but you will note from Chart No. 15, which shows only the
big swings -- major tops and bottoms -- that from the early
part of 1895 prices continued to work higher every year;
that is, making a slightly higher bottom every time, until the
war broke out in 1914, which again carried prices to ab-
normal high levels, reaching 3.25 in May, 1917.
                                                              179

  Notice the top in the fall of 1904 and the early part of
1905, when Wheat reached 1.20, which was the highest price
since the Leiter Corner. Note that distribution took place
between 1.08 and 1.20, and that when prices broke below
this level, they rapidly declined, reaching 82 cents in June,
1905. This is what always follows a long period of accumu-
lation or distribution. Once prices break out of the accumu-
lation or distribution zone, a rapid move follows.

  Note the bottom made between March, 1906, and April,
1907 -- a period of twelve months in a very narrow range.
In September, 1906, prices declined to 75 cents and never
rallied above 81 cents until May, 1907, a period of nine
months of accumulation in a very narrow range. In May,
1907, when prices advanced to 82 cents they were out of the
accumulation zone and immediately moved up rapidly to
$1.00 in May, and on the Green Bug scare in October, 1907,
Wheat sold at 1.12.

  Note on Chart No. 15 that the low price on Wheat in
April, 1911, was 84 cents and that it advanced to 1.19 in
May, 1912. Then followed a long period of accumulation
in 1913 and 1914. In June and July, 1914, prices were
again down to 84 cents, the last low level of 1911. Here
was a period from October, 1912, to July, 1914, when prices
held in a range of 6 to 10 cents per bushel most of the time,
which plainly showed another period of big accumulation the
same as was shown in 1906 and 1907.

  The war broke out the latter part of July and the advance
started. When prices crossed the accumulation level of $1.00
it plainly indicated a big advance. Despite the fact that this
country had a large crop and enormous surplus, prices ad-
vanced to 1.32 in September, 1914. Then reacted to 1.11
and after several months of accumulation, advanced to 1.67
in February, 1915, at which level, you can see, they held for
about four months while distribution was taking place. Prices
declined to 93 cents in September, 1915; advanced to 1.38
in January, 1916; declined to 1.04 in May, 1916.

  After this, the scarcity of Wheat in Europe and the
enormous buying by foreign countries, carried prices to 3.25
in May, 1917, when the Government stopped trading in
Futures and fixed the price of Cash Wheat at $2.50 per
180

bushel. Trading started again in July, 1920. The Decem-
ber option opened at 2.75. Prices continued downward until
April, 1921, when the May option reached 1.20. Then
followed a squeeze during May, 1921, which carried the
May option up to 1.85. In November, 1921, the price again
declined to 1.04, which was the last low level reached in
May, 1916.

  Then followed several months of accumulation in a nar-
row range, as you can see from the chart, and in February,
1922, May Wheat advanced to 1.49 7/8. You can see that
during the months of February, March and April it advanced
to around this same level, but failed to exceed the top made
in February. During the early days of May, 1922, the
May option was selling at 1.47, and everybody was bullish
and hoping for $2.00 Wheat, but the chart, which is a record
of the tape and shows the balance of supply and demand,
plainly indicated that somebody had been supplying Wheat
between 1.44 and 1.48 for nearly four months.

  The decline in May, 1922, was rapid, carrying prices
down to 1.16. Wheat continued to slowly work lower, and
the May option declined to 1.05 in August, 1922. It re-
mained between 1.12 and 1.o6 during August, September,
and October; then crossed this level and advanced to 1.26 3/4
in December, 1922. Note that the last low level, 1.04, was
made in May, 1916, and again the same level in November,
1921, and in August, 1922, 1.05, which was practically the
same level. The next time that Wheat declines to 1.04 for
the May option, it will indicate lower prices and will prob-
ably continue down to around 93 cents to 90 cents per bushel.
Should it cross the last level, 126 3/4, made in December,
1922, it will then be an indication for higher prices.

  Make up a chart on any option of Wheat, Corn, Oats
or Barley, and judge it in the same way that I have explained
and you will be able to determine the zones of accumulation
and distribution. When once prices break out of these zones,
you should follow the trend until it changes again. Never
trade without a reason. Do not sell because prices are high
or buy because they are low. Wait until you see an indication
that the trend is plainly indicated; then go with it.
                                                             181

                           WEEKLY CHART

  Wheat and Corn make both sharp and flat tops and
bottoms. Chart No. 16 a shows weekly high and low on
May Wheat. Note on April 16, 1921, May Wheat declined
to 1.19; rallied to around 1.32, holding two weeks in a
narrow range; then made a rapid advance to 1.85 at the end
of May. This was a straight run-up from a sharp bottom
in which only two or three weeks were used for accumulation;
then a rapid advance on short covering to a new high level.

  Note the weekly chart from October, 1921, to January,
1922. You will see that over 14 weeks of accumulation was
plainly shown and that prices never got as low as 1.03 1/2,
the level reached on November 5, 1921. The fact that they
held for a long time without going lower showed accumula-
tion, but if you waited until you had a plain indication, when
prices reached 1.20, which was above the accumulation zone,
you would have caught a fast advance which carried prices
up 28 cents per bushel in four weeks.

  After prices reached 1.49 7/8 on February 27, 1922, notice
a sharp decline to 1.30 took place. Prices held for four or
five weeks in a narrow range, reaching the lowest level,
128 1/2, around April 1 to 8; then advanced again to 1.49.
Here they halted, failing to cross the high price of February
and for five weeks distribution was going on, giving you
plenty of time to sell out and go short with a stop loss order
2 to 3 cents above the high price made in February and the
latter part of April.

  After this, a rapid decline followed in May and prices
worked slowly lower until the May option reached 1.04 1/2
in August and September, 1922. Here you find another
level in a narrow range with five or six weeks of accumula-
tion. During the week ended September 23, prices advanced
above the accumulation level and showed that the trend had
turned up. They reacted after that, but continued to work
higher until they reached 1.26 3/4 in December, 1922, and
here is where the daily chart helps us to get out near the top.
                                                               183

                             DAILY CHART

  I have shown on Chart No. 16b daily high and low from
December 13 to 29, 1922. Note that on December 20
prices reached 126 1/4; on December 22, 1.26 1/2; on Decem-
ber 27, 1.26 3/4 and on December 28, the high was 1.26 1/2,
from which the decline started. The high price on December
18 was 1.25 1/2 and for ten days prices failed to gain more
than 1 cent per bushel, which showed that a level had been
reached where supply was in excess of demand and after this
period of time when prices broke back below 1.25, which
was under the distribution zone on the daily chart, it was an
indication to sell out and go short. Thus you see that the
daily chart will help to give you a minor change and get you
in or out close to tops and bottoms before the weekly and
monthly charts show a change in the major trend. But the
daily chart will often fool you, as the time period is short
and many false moves occur which are the reverse of the
main trend and do not in any way change it.


                DETERMINING CHANGE IN TREND

  By study and experience and by considering the activity
of the market, you will often be able to determine very
quickly an important change in trend. Of course, there is
no way of knowing the exact amount of Wheat or Corn
traded in daily; therefore the only way to judge when there
is a large volume of business, is by the rapidity of the fluctua-
tions. For instance:

  Suppose May Wheat trades between 1.24 and 1.26 dur-
ing the day, but fluctuates between the high and low price
five or six times; that is, moving up or down over the same
range. Then we would conclude that there was a large
volume of business being transacted and that somebody was
supplying large quantities of Wheat around 1.26 and buying
around 1.24. Now, if it declines the next day below 1.24,
it would be an indication that support had been withdrawn,
or if it advances above 1.26, it would be an indication that
the supply of Wheat at that level had been absorbed and that
prices are going higher. But suppose the same day Wheat
184

trades between 1.24 and 1.26, it simply opens at 1.24 and
advances to 1.26 without making any reverse moves up or
down. Then we would conclude that the volume of trading
was not large enough to indicate that it was getting ready
for any immediate change in trend.


                       SUPPLY AND DEMAND

 When a market starts to advance, it continues upward
until it reaches a level where supply and demand are about
equal and prices come to a standstill. Then supply increases
until it exceeds demand, and prices start to decline.

  In a long decline or a long advance, a level is reached
where the supply is absorbed and prices go on to the next
level, where they meet another large supply and absorb it,
and finally to a level where the supply is so much greater
than the demand that distribution takes place and prices start
on a long trend down. This is why many weeks and some-
times several months are required at bottom or top to com-
plete accumulation or distribution before a big move starts.

  People who buy or sell the first or second time that the
market halts after the trend turns, invariably lose money
because it is simply a halting period to absorb offerings or
to supply a demand at that level, after which the main trend
moves on to the next level. For this reason, it does not pay
to buck the trend -- always go with it. If you trade against
the trend for a quick turn and get a small profit, accept it;
do not expect too much. At the same time, protect your
trade with a stop loss order and do not let it run against you
when you are bucking the trend.
               SELECTING A BROKER

  Last, but not least of all, selecting a reliable broker is
most important. Millions and millions of dollars have been
lost during the last few years through failures of unreliable
brokers. Therefore, it is just as important to know that
your money is safe and that you will get your capital and
profits if you make them, as it is to know when to buy and
sell.

  Make the proper investigation and be sure your broker
is safe, not only as to his financial standing, but also try to
ascertain whether he or his firm speculates. I do not consider
any broker safe who speculates or permits others to speculate
on a credit with the firm or customers’ money.

  I do not advise trading at all with brokers who are not
members of the New York Stock Exchange, New York Cot-
ton Exchange, or Chicago Board of Trade. There are a
few houses who are members of other exchanges that are
honest and reliable. Therefore, investigate the house before
you open an account.
                                _______

  I have written what I believe is required for your success.
It is practical and based on the result of my years of labor
and experience. Read this book over several times, for each
time you will learn something new and get new ideas of your
own which will benefit you. If you will follow the instruc-
tions carefully and trade conservatively, never buying or
selling a stock without a reason nor being in too big a hurry
to get in or out, I feel sure that you will make a success and
after a few years will have cause to thank me for starting
you on the right road to Successful Speculation and Invest-
ment.

                                                 W. D. GANN.

                        FINIS

                          185
