No. 3 MASTER FORECASTING METHOD
&
UNPUBLISHED STOCK MARKET FORECASTING COURSES

W. D. GANN

SECTION I_ THE ORIGINAL NO. 3 MASTER FORECASTING METHOD

2,
—

2
“e

«

>

i?
we 4

Yo

*

=

¢

CHAPTER 1 LEARN BEFORE YOU LOSE OR WHY YOU LOSE MONEY
ON STOCKS & HOW TO MAKE PROFITS
An important marketing brochure discussing the Master Time Factor
and advertising the original release of this most important course.
CHAPTER 2 FORM READING AND RULES FOR DETERMINING TREND OF STOCKS
CHAPTER 3 RESISTANCE LEVELS
CHAPTER 4 VOLUME OF SALES

CHAPTER 5 MASTER TIME FACTOR & FORECASTING BY MATHEMATICAL RULES
This is one of Gann’s two most important, and previously unpublished courses
covering the following rare sections: Forecasting, Great Cycle - Master Time
Factor, Bull & Bear Calendar Years, How To Make Annual Forecasts, Mater 20-
Year Forecasting Chart, 1929 & 1936 Yearly Forecasts, NYSE Permanent Chart

CHAPTER 6 ENHANCED MASTER CHARTS
Master “12” Chart — Square of 9 — Six Squares of 9 - 2 Hexagon Charts — Master
Chart of 360° - Mater 360° Circle Chart Squared — Spiral Chart - NYSE
Permanent Chart — US Steel Name Chart — US Permanent Chart — Price & Time
Spiral Charts - 15° Hourly Spiral Chart — Square of 4 - May Soy Bean Master
Chart — Mater Egg Chart - Coffee Rio Conic Chart - May Wheat Geometric
Chart ~ Even Squares — Gann Scientific Forecast - May Soy Beans

SECTION II_ UNPUBLISHED STOCK MARKET FORECASTING COURSES

2.
DO

CHAPTER 7 METHOD FOR FORECASTING THE STOCK MARKET
A rare unpublished stock market course from 1921 covering Gann’s

complete method of forecasting and including astrological correlations
never included in other courses.

CHAPTER8 HOw TO FORECAST
Another rare, unpublished forecasting course focusing on the Dow Jones.
CHAPTER 9 THE BASIS OF MY FORECASTING METHOD
This is a previously published course but is included to complete the
forecasting course.
CHAPTER 10 FORECASTING By TIME CYCLES

An unfamiliar short time cycle course illustrating how Gann sold sections
of his courses.

CHAPTER 11 AUBURN MOTORS

An interesting analysis of Auburn Motors by geometrical angles.
CHAPTER 12 TIME AND PRICE RESISTANCE LEVELS

Another rare and interesting course on resistance levels.
CHAPTER 13 HOw TO SELL PUTS & CALLS

A short unpublished work on selling puts and calls.
bo

CHAPTER 1

LEARN BEFORE YOU LOSE

OR

WHy YOU LOSE

MONEY ON STOCKS

&

HOw TO MAKE PROFITS

well lee Oe
=— aoe Oe

=e eS SS FS ee

) | | ! |

—— or

LEARN BEFORE YOU LOSE
OR

WHY YOU LOSE MONEY
ON STOCKS

AND
HOW TO MAKE PROFITS

LEARN BEFORE YOU LOSE

OR

WHY YOU HAVE LOST MONEY IN STOCKS
AND HOW TO MAKE IT BACK

Why do the great majority of people who buy and sell stocks lose?

There are three main reasons:

1. They over-trade or buy and sell too much for their capital.
2. They do not place stop loss orders or limit their losses.
3. Lack of Knowledge. This is the most important reason of all.

* Most people buy a stock because they hope it will go up and they will
make profits. They buy on tips, or what-someone else thinks, without an
concrete knowledge of their own that the stock will advance. Thus they
entered the market wrong and did not recognize this mistake or attempt to
correct it until too late. Finally they sell because they fear the stock will
go lower and often they sell out near low levels, getting out at the wrong
time, making two mistakes, getting in the market at the wrong time and

- getting out at the wrong time. One mistake could have been prevented,

they could have gotten out right after getting in wrong. They do not real-
ize that operating in Stocks and Commodities is a business or a profession,
the same as engineering or the medical profession.

Why You Should Learn to Determine the Trend of the Market

You may have tried to follow market letters and like many others either
lost money or failed to make profits, because the market letters gave a list.
of too many stocks to buy or sell and you picked the wrong one and lost.
A smart man cannot follow another man blindly even though the other man
is right, because you cannot have confidence and act on advice when you
do not know what it is based on. You will be able to act with confidence
and make profits when you can SEE and KNOW for YOURSELF why STOCKS
should go UP or DOWN. That is why you should take a Course of Instruc-
tions and prepare yourself to act independent of the advice of others.

Why I Teach My Methods

Long years in practical market trading and experience in teaching others
has taught me what others need for success in speculation. They must learn
a rule and how to apply it before they take up the second !esson or set of
Rules. When you first went to school ycu had to learn your A, B, Cs before
you could read and when you started to study arithmetic you had to learn
the four fundamental rules, addition, multiplication, division and subtraction.
~~ Et ww ee eel eee

| |

Then you were prepared to take up higher mathematics, algebra and
geometry.

My Course or Lessons starts you in the same way, leading you step by
step and adding more rules when you are ready and can understand them.

| have made a success in Wall Street and have all the income that |
need, this fact can be proven by the records. | find real pleasure in help-
ing others who are trying to help themselves. Money it not everything in
life, when | teach a young man or woman how to protect and preserve their

‘capital | am giving them valuable knowledge that they cannot lose, and no

one can steal it or take it from them.

You should never buy a method from a man who has not made money
with it.

W. D. GANN
THIRTY-ONE YEARS IN WALL STREET

The Founder and president of W. D. Gann & Son, Inc. has devoted 35
years exclusively to the study of stock and commodity markets and has spent

over $300,000.00 developing a worthwhile, practical method of Stock Fore-
casting.

During the past 31 years W. D. Gann has been in business for himself and
under his own name in New York City. He is a member of the Commodi

Exchange, Inc. of New York, New Orleans Cotton Exchange and is a Chris-
tian and a member of the Masonic fraternity.

The Record of Ferecasts—
Highlights through the years

1909—W. D. Gann's record as a forecaster dates back 30 years. We
reprint part of ‘an article written by the late Richard D. Wyckoff and pub-
lished in the Ticker Magazine. This article is dated December 1909 and at-

Jests-io Mr. Gann's remarkable ability as a forecaster over 30 years ago.

WILLIAM D. GANN

An Operator Whose Science and Ability Placo Him in the Front Ronk—
His Remarkable Predictions and Trading Record.

Sometime ago the attention of this mag- So repeatedly: did his figures’ prove to
azine was: eliracted by certain long pull be eccurate, and so different did his work
stock market prodicfions which were being appear from that of any expert whose
made by William D. Gann. In a large methods we hed examined, that we sot
number of cases Mr. Gann gave us ip ad- about to investigate Mr. Gann and his
vance tho exect points at which certain -wav of fiquring out these predictions, as
sHocks and commodities would sell, together well as the particular use which he was
with pricos ctuse io tho fhen prevailing making of thom in iho markot.
figures which would not be fouched.

Tho rosulis of this investigation aro re-

For instance, when Now York Central markablo in many ways.

was 131 he predicted that il would sull at 4
145 before 129. 1 appoars to be a fact thet Mr. Gann

‘J

hes developed an entirely new idea as to
the principles governing stock market
movements. He bases his operations upon
certain natural laws, which, though cxisting
since the world kegan, have only in recent
years been subjected to the will of man,
and added to the list of so-called modern
discoveries.

We heve asked Mr. Gann for an outline
of his work and havo secured somo remark-
able evidence as to the results obtsined
- therefrom. We submit this in full recog-
nition of the fact that in Wall Street a
mon with a now idea—an idoa which vio-
laios tho traditions and encoureges 4
scientific view of the proposition—is not
usually welcomed by the majority, for the
reason that he stimulates thought and’ re-

search. These activities said majority
ebhors.

Mr Gann's description of his experience
and methods is given herewith. It should
be read with a recognition of the estab-
lished fact that Mr. Gann's predictions
have proved correct in a large majority
of instances. ;

. “After years of patient study I have
proven to my entire sotisfaction es well
as demonstrated to others that vibration
explains every possible phase and con¥i-
tion of the market." :

In order to substantiate Mr. Gann's
claims as to what he has been able to
do under this method, we called upon Mr.
William E. Gilley, an Inspector of Imports,
16 Beaver Street, New York. Mr. Gilley
is well-known in tho down-town district.
He himself has studied stock market movo-
ments for twenty-five years, during which
time he has examined every piczo of mar-
ket literature that has been issued and
procurable in Wall Street. [it was he who
encouraged Mr. Gann to study out the

scientific and mathematical po.sibilities of -

the -subject. When asked what had been
the most impressive of Mr. Gann's work and
predictions, he replied oa: follows:

“It is vory difficult for me to remember
all the predictions and: operations of Mr.
Gann which may be classed as phenom-
onal, but the following are a few: In 1908
when Union Pacific was 1681/ he told me
thet it would not touch 169 bofore it had

2 good break. We sold it short all the-

way down to 1525/, covering on the week
spots and putting it out again on the
rallies, securing twenty-three points profit
out of an ocightcen-point mova.

“Ho came to mo when ‘Unifed States
Steol was solling around 50 and said ‘This
Siow! will run up fo 58 but it will not sell

“at 59. From there it shevld break 1634

points. We sold it short around 583
with a stop at 59. Tho highest it went
was 5834, From there it declined to 4114
—171f points.

“At another time whest was selling at
about 89c. He predicted that the May
option would soll at $1.35. We bought it
and made large profits on the way up.
It actually touched $1.3514.

"When Union Pacific was 172, ho seid
it would go to 1847 but not an eighth
higher until it had had a good break. It
wont fo 1847/g and camo back from thoro
eight or nino timos. Wo sold it short ro-
poatedly with a sion at 185 and wore

never caught. It eventually came back to
1721/9.

“Mr. Gann's calculations aro based on
natural law. 1 have followed his work
closely for years. | know that he has a
firm grasp of the basic principles which-
govern stock market movements, and |-
do not believe: any other man on carth

can duplicate iho idea or his method at
the present time.

“Early this year he figured that the top
of the advance would fall on a certain
dey in August and calculaiecd the prices
at which the Dow-Jones averages would
then stand. The market culminated on the
exact day and within four-tenths of one per
cent. of the fiqures predicted.”:

“You and Mr. Gann must have cleaned

up considerable money on all these opera-
tions," was suggested,

"Yes, wo have meade a great deal of
money. He has taken half a million dol-

lars out of the market in the past few

years. I once saw him {ake $130, and in
less than one month run it up to cover
$12,000. He can compound moncy faster
than any man | ever met." .

"One of the most astenishine calculations
mado by Mr. Gann was during last sum-
mer (1909) when ho predicied that Scp-
tember wheat would sell ot $1.20. This
meant that it must touch thet figuro bo-
fore the end of the month of Sepicmbor.
At twelve o'clock, Chicago time, on Sep-
tember 30th (the last day) the option was
sclling below $1.08, and it looked es though
his prediction would not be fulfilled. Mr.
Gann said ‘If it coes not touch $1.20 bv
the close of the market it will prove thai

there is something wrong with my v-hole

method of catculation. | do not care
what fhe price is now, iH must ge theo! i
is common history thet September wheat
surprised iho whole couniry by selling af
41.20 and no hiahor in the very last heur
of the trading, closing at ihat figure,

-proerercrorerereFfF er =
So much for what Mr. Gann has said ond
done os evidenced by himself and others.
Now as to what demonstrations have faten
place before our representative:

Durina the month of October, 1909, in
twenty-five market days, Mr. Gann made, in
the presence of our representative, two
hundred and cighty-six transactions in var-
tous stocks, on both the long and short
side of the merket. Two hundred end
sixty-four of these transactions resulted in
profits; twenty-two in losses.

Tho capitel with which he operated was
doubled fen times, so that at the end of
the month he had one thousand per cent.
of “his original margin.

In our presence Mr. Gann sold Steol
common short at 947%, saying that it would
not go jo 95. It did not,

On & drive which occurred during the
week ending October 29th, Mr. Gann
bought Steel common at 861%, saying that

it would not go to 86. The lowest it sold
wes 8614, 7

We hevo soen him give in one day six-
feen successive orders in the same stock,
eight of which turned out to be either the
top or the bottom eighth of that particular
swing. The above we can positively verify.

Such performances as these, coupled with

the foregoing, are probably ‘unparalleled in
the history of the Streat.

James R.-Keene hes said, "The man
who is right six times out of ten will make
his foriune." ere is a ireder, who, with-
out any allemp! io mako &@ showing (for
ho did not know the results were to be
published), establishes a record of over
ninety-two per. cent profitable trades.

Mr. Gann has refused to disclose his
method af any price, but to those scien-
lifically “inclined he has unquestionably
added to the stock of Walt Street knowl-
edge and poinied out infinite possibilities:

In 1912 Mr.
forecasting the

We have requested Mr. Gann to figure
out for the readers of The Ticker a few of
the most striking indications which appear
in his calculations. In presenting these we
wish it understood that no man, in or out

of Wall Street, is infallible.

Mr. Gann's fiaures at present indicate
that the trend of tho stock markot should,
barring the usual rallies, be toward lower
prices until March or April, 1910.

, He calculates that May wheat, which is
now selling at $1.02, should not sell bolow
99%c. and should sell at $1.45 next spring.

On cotton, which is now at about the
15c. level, he estimates that, after a good
reaction from these prices, the commodity
should reach 18c. in tho spring of 1910.
Ho looks for a corner in the March or May
option.

Whether these figures prove correct or
not, will in no sense detract from the re-

“cord which Mr. Gann has already estab-

lished.

Mr. Gann was born in Lufkin, Texas, and
is thirty-one years of ege. He is a gifted
mathematician, has an extraordinary mem-
ory for figures, and is an expert Tape
Reader. Take away his science and he
would beat the markot on his intuitive tape

‘reading alone.

Endowed as he is with such qualities, we
have no hesitation in predicting that within

.2 comparatively few years Wm. D. Gann

will receive full recognition as one of Wall
Sirect's leading operators.

R. DL W.

-Note—Since. the above forecast was
made, Cotton has suffered the expected
decline, the extreme break having been
120 points. The lowest on May wheat
thus fer has been $1.0154. It is now
selling at 1.0614.

Sain forecast the election of Woodrow Wilson and has been correct in
clection of every President since that time. Many of these forecasts have

been ‘published in newspapers throughout the country.

In the spring of 1918 Mr. Gann forecast the end of the World War. This forecast

‘was sent out jo news
Herald and other pa

the Kaiser's abdication.

pépers throughouf the country, and in January, 1919, the New York
pers gave’ Mr. Gann credit for forecesting the end of tho war and

In his 1919 Annual Stock Forecast, issued late in 1918, he foregest a big bull market
for 1919 and especially referred 19 @ boom in oil stocks.

4
His Stock Forecasts for 1920 and 1921 indicated a bear merket with sharp declines.
Tho 192! Forecast callod the oxact daio for bottom on stocks in August, 1921.

In 1923 Mr. Gann wrote "Truth of the Stock Tape” and forecast a big advance in
chemical and airplane stocks, which followed during tho Coolidge bull campaign. This
book has been reviewed by newspapers and magazines throughout the country and favor-

ably commented on by college professors, business men, investors and traders, all of
whom agree that it is the best book ever written on the subject.

His Stock Forecasts for 1924 end 1925 outlined the bull market which followed.

In tho spring of 1927, Mr. Gann wrote “Tho Tunnel Thru tho Air, or Looking back
From 1940," which contained many remarkable forecasts in regard to stocks and com-
modities and world events which have been fulfilled. In this book Mr. Gann said that
from 1929 to 1932 thore would bo tho worst panic in tho world’s history. Wriling under
date of “October 3, 1931" on page 323, he said, "Tho New York Stock Exchange closed
to prevent complete panic because the people were panic-stricken and selling stocks
regardless of price." It is a matter of history that the New York Stock Exchange did
consider closing on October 3 to 5, but decided to stop short selling. The low of that

panicky decline was reached on October 5 and a rally of 33 points in industrial stock
averages followed to November 9, 1931. :

His 1929 Stock Forecast, issued on November 23, 1928, and based on his Master Time
Factor, indicated the end of the full market in August and early September, 1929. He
stated in no uncertain torms that tho panic would start in Sopiomber, 1929, ond that it
would bo a great deluge with a Black Friday. We quote from the Forocast:

“AUGUST—A few of the late movers will advance this month and reach final high.
* * * Unfavorable news will develop which will start declines and tho long bull campaign
will come to a sudden end. Money rates will be high and final top will be reached for
a big bear campaign. Stand from under! Don't get caught in the great deluge! Re-
member it is too late to sell when everyone is trying to soll. * * *

“SEPTEMBER—One of the sharpest declines of the year is indicated. There will be
loss of confidence -by investors, and the public will try to get out afier it is too late.
Storms will damage crops and the gencral business outlook will become cloudy. War
news will upsct the market and unfavorable developments in foreign countries. A ‘Black

* Friday’ is indicated and a panicky decline in stocks with only small rallies. The short
side will prove the most profitable. You should sell short and pyramid on the way down."

In the spring of 1930, Mr. Gann wrote "Wall Street Stock Selector," which was pub-
lished in June, 1930. In this book he hed a chapter headed, “Investars’ Panic,” which

described condilions just as thoy occurred during 1931, 1932 and 1933. We quote fiom
ihe book, pages 203-04:

“The coming investors’ panic will be ihe greatest in history, becouse there are aot least
15 to 25 million investors in the United States who hold stocks in the leading corpore-
tions, and when once they get scared, which they will afier years of decline, then the
selling will be so terrific that no buying power can withstand it. Stocks are so well
distributed in the hands of the public that since ihe 1929 panic many people think that

the market is panic-proof, but this seeming strength is really the woakest foaturo of the
market. * * *

“Love of money has been the cause of all financial troubles and depressions in the
pest, and the coming panic will be the greatest the world has ever known, becauso there
is more money in the United Siates than ever before, therefore more to fight for."

Thousands of people have bought this book and profited by reading and ‘studying it.
The book has been favorably commented on by such papers as The Financial Times of
London, England, Well Street Journal, New York Daily Investment News, Coast Investor,
and many other newspapers and magazines throughout the world,

On February 10, 1932, Mr. Gann said that stocks were bottom for a big really. His
1932 Stock Forecast, issued October 21, 1931, called Merch 8 for last top for enother
big decline. During the letter part of June, 1932, and early July he strongly advised
buying stocks, stating that final bottom had beon reached, as shown by his market Ictter
issued July 8 the day thet most sfoecks reached final boifom. We quoic frem pago 6
of the 1932 Forecast;

)
"The latter part of June, July, August and September are the most active and bullish
months of the year, when sharp advances will be recorded. First extreme high is indi-

cated around September 20 to 21, when stocks should make extreme high for the year.
Then follows a decline, reaching bottom aroynd October 4 to 5."

Between July 8 and September 8 many stocks advanced 20 to 60 points. The market
roached high of a secondary rally on September 23, from which a big decline followed,
making low in the latter part of November and early December, as indicated in the

Forecast.

On.March I. 1933, by the use of his Master Time Factor Mr. Gann forecast bottom
for stocks and commodities and advised buying for a big advance, as shown by the

market letters issued March | and 3 given below. This is another proof of the great
value of Mr. Gann's discovery of a Master Time Factor.

KEEPING UP TO DATE

Mr. Gann has always been progressive and believes in keeping up to date. In April,
1933, he bought a specially equipped airplane for making crop surveys. Many of the
newspapers throughout the country commented on this progressive step. The following
article appeared in the New York Daily Investment News. May 26, 1933:

NEW YORK DAILY INVESTMENT NEWS

-GANN TO TOUR COUNTRY BY PLANE
FOR BROAD BUSINESS SURVEY

Wayne, Mich. May 25.—W. D. Gann,
stock market analyst, of 99 Wall St., today
left here for New York with the first 1933
model Stinson Reliant plane, piloted by

Elinor Smith, woman aviator.

Mr. Gann will use the plane for an ex-
tensive tour of the country during which he
will study cotton, wheat and tobacco crop
and business conditions. He will leave on
this tour early in June. :

The forecaster expects to make speed in
the gathering of first hand information on
business conditions by use of the airplane.

The plane is equipped with blind-flying
apparatus, extra-large fuel tanks to afford
a flying range of 750 miles and with radio
receiving equipment. The plane is powered
with a Lycoming engine and is capable
of 135 miles per hour.

By receiving radio advices on market
conditions, Mr. Gann calculates that he
will be able at all times to gauge his
operations in the markets and send up-to-
the-minute advise to his clients, even

though he is many miles away from his
Wall Street office.

As far as is known, Mr. Gann will be
the first Wall Street odviser to use a plane

as part of his equipment in studying market
conditions,

The recent burst of activity in the mar-
kets, following the closing of the banks
and leading stock and commodity ex-

changes, prompted the analyst to buy the
plane.

He decided that rapid-changing con-
ditions made it necessary for him to gather
his data on crops and business at first hand.

. Mr. Gann is a member of the Commodity
Exchange, Inc., and also of the New Or-
leans Cotton Exchange. During: his tour
of the country he will visit the cotton belt
in the south and southwest. the tobacco
fields in the scvth, and tao wheat stand
in the middle wost.

At all times during the trip he will
communicate regulary with his offico by
wire and by radio. He expects to make
talks in various cities to Kiwanis and Ro-
tary Clubs, chambers of commerce and
other business organizations.

His itinerary will include the following
cities:

Washington, D. C.; Richmond, Va; Ra-
leigh, N. C.; Atlanta, Ga; Birmingham,
Ala; Memphis, Tenn.; Now Orleans, La.:
Little Rock, Ark.; Houston and Dallas,
Texas; St. Louis, Detroit and Chicago.

1933, STOCK FORECAST:

Mr. Genn's 1933 Stock Forecast called for top July 17 and a sharp decline to July 21.

Stocks reached high on July 17 and « wide-open break followed, with the average down
25 points in 4 days.

1934 STOCK FORECAST:

His 1934 Forocast indicated top for Fobruary 13th and the high was reached on ever-
eges February Sth and 15th. Tho next low was indicated for May IIth to I2th, ond the
market made low on May I4th. The next top was indicated for June 22nd; stocks reached
high on June 19th. The last low for 1934 was forecast for July 2ist to 23rd and the
extreme low of the year was reached on July 26th. The Forecast called for the last top
for September 8th to l0th, and stocks reached top of the rally on September 6th. A
reaction followed to September I7th, the exact date indicated in the Forecast for low. The
next top was forecast for October 5th and th and the industrial averages reached top
October Ith. The next bottom was called for October 23rd to 24th and the lows were
reached October 26th. The next top was indicated, according to the Forecast, for De-
cember 4th to 5th. The averages reached top on December 6th and a reaction followed.

The Forecast indicated high for the end of December and the averages reached high
for the month on December 31st.

A CROP SURVEY IN SOUTH AMERICA

In the early part of March, 1935, Mr. Gann made a trip to South America to study
crop conditions and get first hand information on the increase in production of cotton
in Peru, Chile, Argentine, and Brazil. On this trip he covered about 18,000 miles by
airplane and more than 1,000 miles by automobile, driving into the country to see the
conditions of soil and the possibilities for increased production of Wheat, Corn and
Cotton, which will influence prices in the United States market by underselling, due to

lower cost of labor in Argentine and Brazil. While in South America, Mr. Gann was
interviewed by many newspapers.

We reproduce part of an article which appeared in the Beunos Aires Herald, March
21, 1935.

BEUNOS AIRES HERALD

Thursday, March 21, 1935

SCIENCE AND STOCK

An Astonishing Claims

Records of 1,000 Years

The man who guesses and gambles on develop a dependable method based on
hope is sure to lose while the man who mathematical science that will determine
follows science makes profits. There is the trend of stocks and commodities. The
cause and effect for everything and by time success attending his methods he asserts,
element and the cycle theory everything can are borne out by his own good fortune on
be mathematically determined. the American markets, and his accuracy in
forecasting the futures markets for the past
twenty years has been very widely com-

mented upon in the Press in all parts of the
Exchange of New York, who stated thet United States.
he has devoted over 30 years to study of
time cycles and spent $300,000 (U.S.} to Mr. Gann told e HERALD reporter yes-

Mr. W. D. Gann. member of the New
Orleans Cotton Exchange and the Rubber

“4

10

i
i
i
i
7
h
i
:
:
a
lL
be
la
'
.
a
a
J
i
terday that he has carried his records of visited Egypt and Indie. More recently
grain back over 1,000 years and cotton

he has used his own aeroplane extensivel
records nearly 400 years. The former he. - : . i
was able to gather the most accurate in- i® America for getting round the country

formation about from old British records, Quickly to make forecasts on the cotton
while in his search for cotton cycles he crops.

1935 Stock Paracas:

His 1935 Forecast indicated first top for January 9th to 10th and the high was reached
on January 7th. The next top was forecast for February 13th. The actual highs were
reached February 18th, from which a sharp decline followed, making low for the year
on March 18th. The Forecast called for the last low on March 28th, and the averages

made a second low on March 25th. From the low in March, the Forecast indicated a big
advance of at least 32 points in the Dow-Jones Industrial averagas.

August 28th and 29th indicated top for a reaction.

August 27th and then reacted. The Forecast called for the next top September {2th

to ISth. High on the averages was reached September {Ith. The Forecast indicated

the next bottom for September 24th to 25th; the last low was made September 20th
and 26th.

The averages reached top on

The Forecast called for top October 26th ¢

on October 28th, which was the high of the year up to that time. The Forecast indi-
cated November I5th to 16th as the last high of the year. The actual high of the Dow-
Jones 30 Industrial averages was reached on November 20th, from which a reaction of
10 points on averages followed. The Forecast called for low December 9-l0th and 23rd.

The low of the reaction was made on December 16th and 19th. The Forecast called for
a rally to December 31st, and this rally took place.

° 28th, and the averages reached high

Mr. Gann has also been issuing Annual Forecast on Cotton, Wheat and other commo-

dities for many years. These Forecasts have shown the same percentage of accuracy
that the Stock Forecasts have. :

These Annual, Forecasts on Stocks, Cotton, and Grain are issued in October and
November each year for the following year.

NEW STOCK TREND DETECTOR

In December 1935, Mr. Gann wrote a new book, NEW STOCK TREND DETECTOR,
bringing "Wall Street Stock Selector" up-to-date, with new rules never before published
and a method of trading that formerly sold for $1000.00. This book covers changed con-
ditions coused by the new Securities Exchange laws. It gives an example of trading in
Chrysler Motors from 1925 to the end of 1935 and new rules on Volume of Sales. This
book with the two former books will give you a valuable stock market education.

ss W. D. GANN MAKES PROFITS TRADING ACCORDING
TO HIS OWN METHODS

Many ask the question, "If Mr. Gann can forecast the market accurately,
he sell service or write market letters?"

finds pleasure in giving his knowled
everything in life,

why does
He has answered that question before, that he

ge to help others who need help; money is not

Below we publish a record taken from brokers’ statements, showing the trades made
by Mr. Genn for 3 yeers. This is proof thet he can and does make money by following

11
12

his own rules and methods. Before you buy a course of instructions, get the record of
actual trading by the man who is behind it, if he has not made money following his own
advice, why should you pay money for it and follow it and risk your money?

W. D. GANN'S TRADING RECORD FOR 1933
From August | to December 31:

Total number of trades—I35—of which 112 showed profits and 23 losses.

Percentage of accuracy on the total number of trades... we. 839

— 89.99

Total number of trades for the entire year of 1933: 479 trades, of which 422 were profits
and 57 showed losses.

Percentage of profits to losses

Percentage of accuracy

= 88.1%

Percentage of profits on capital used 4000% or 40 for |

TRADING RECORD FOR 1934

From January | to December 31: Total number of trades—362.

Cotton — 147 trades, of which 135 showed profits and 12 losses
Grain — 170 x ° "  16l * " "9
Rubber — 23 oo = 21 ” " a
Silver — 7 = 8 as 7 " " “ 9 48
Silk — 4  Y ny 3 " ” a
Stocks — 11 i “ " 10 “ " =<

Total for yr. 362 trades, of which 337 showed profits and 25 losses.

Percentage of accuracy on the total number of trades.

93.099
93.105¢
800% or 8 for |

Percentage of profits to losses.

Percentage of profits on capital used

TRADING RECORD FOR 1935

Commodities:

Total trades in Cotton, Grain and Rubber—98—of which 83 showed profits and 15
showed losses.

Percentage of accuracy on total number of trades.........

eens 85%
Percentage of profits to losses. ee = was, (8256
Percentage of profits on capital used..___..__.. sae wataccas TIEGE

Stocks:

°

a on a
Totel number of trades—34—of which 29 showed profits and 5 losses.

Percentage of accuracy on total number of trades

canines SS.5S%
Percentage of profits to losses ————— eer - 839%
Percentage of profits on capital used 7 100%

Such a record of accuracy proves that W. D. Gann has discovered a Master Time
Factor and Cycle Theory that works and can be depended upon in future.

1936—"New Stock Trend Detector” was written by W. D. Gann. This book was a further
advance over “Truth of the Stock Tape" and “Wall Street Stock Selector and
contained an actual trading record for 10 years in Chrysler Motors according to
the rules set down in these books.

Bought Special built all-metal Airplane, "The Silver Star" for making crop surveys.

1937—Wrote and published a book, “How to Make Profits Trading in Puts and Calls"
Scientific Stock Forecasting again proved equal to the test of predicting a bear
year, sharp declines coming in March and September. A maximum decline of
80 points was called for and the actual decline from the March high to the Nov-

ember low was 82 and a fraction points. We reprint an article from the Milwaukee
douraal giving further details.

PREDICTED STOCK MARKET. CRASHES OF 1929, 1937

Gann Says There'll Be Another Decline in November and an
Upturn in December of This Year

NEW YORK, N. Y.—W. D. Gann, who forecast the 1929 sto

in advance and predicted the exact date, September 3,
start, has made another hii.

ck market crash one year
1929, when the panic would

His 1937 Stock Forecast, issued November 18, 1936, is just es accurate. On page 2
he said—General Outlook for 1937":

This year comes under « time cycle which definitely indicates a bear year in most stocks
and a panicky decline in the first half of the year and another panicky decline in the
last half of the year. Fluctuations will be wide. Sudden, unexpected events of an un-
favorable nature will occur from time to time which will upset the market and rallies will
fail to hold. Action by the government and laws changed or passed by congress will
have a great influence on business conditions and stock prices.

* * *

“Many people are still buying stocks or holding stocks and hoping for the day when
inflation will come and they will be able to sell at high prices. Inflation has been going

on ever since 1933 and one of these days people will wake up and find that deflation
has set in and then they will realize that inflation had already existed.

= * =

The securities and exchange commission is getting more drastic in its regulations of
operations on the exchange and there is likely to be more legislation in 1937. This will
cause less support to the market in tho future because thera will be less buying by floor
traders and specialists, and probably less short selling, therefore less support from short

rellers when a panic’ takes place. The final result of all this regulation is likely to do
more harm than good as far as the public is concerned.”

10
14

A Matter of Record

It is a matter of record thet the Dow-Jones 30 industrial stock averages reached ex-
treme high on March 8, 1937, and Mr. Gann's forecast called March 6-8 as last high of
the year. The decline lasted until June 18, when the Dow-Jones averages were down
32 points. His forecast called for a decline of 32 points and indicated June 23-25 as
last low before a rally into August. The forecast said last high would be reached August

25-27 before a panicky decline would start. The Dow-Jones averages reached high August
14, up 27 points from June lows, and on August 25 the market had the last rally and
the decline started.

Long Bear Wave

In his forecast for August on page 15 he said: “This should be one of the active months
for the stock market. Sudden, unexpected events of an unfavorable nature will cause
some sharp breaks and, in fact, this is the month when the market should start on its
long bear wave again. The newspapers will try to make it appeer that business is improy-
ing but it will be far from good. There will be disturbing conditions at Washington
and some trouble over crop control or shortage of crops due to government action.

Stocks will rally from time to time but the short side is where the big money will be
made."

The bear market started in August as predicted. Mr. Gann's forecast called for low
October 14-15 and the extreme lows were reached on October 19, just four days later,
when there was a panicky decline, culminating in one of the worst declines in the history
of the stock exchange, with the Dow-Jones averages’ down 79.65 points. The most un-

canny prediction by Mr. Gann was that the averages could decline 2 maximum of 80
points.

In his 1937 forecast, page 7, he said: “The range in these industrial averages during
1937 is not likely to be less than 50 to 60 points and may reach a maximum of 80 points."

His forecast called for a sharp advance from October 15 to 30 and the Dow-Jones
evereges advanced 25 points from October 19 to 30.

Advance in December

Mr. Gann was asked how it was possible to make such an accurate forecast one year
in advance. He stated that it was his own discovery of a mathematical master time
factor and cycle theory which enables him to tell when certain cycles recur and great

panics and booms take place. He said that the extent of an ‘advance was determined

by a theory based on the law of averages and that under certain circumstances stocks
decline or advance about the same number of points.

* * *

“What about the near future of the stock market?" Gann replied: "My forecast indi-
cates that stocks will beck and fill until around November 15, when congress meets. Then

they will have another decline and reach low of the reaction about November 26-27,
followed by an advance in December.”

1938—Predicted bull market to start in the spring or early summer, and called for low
of the yeer for the early part of April. Actual low occurred on March 3lst. This
Forecast strongly advised buying airplane stocks and said they would lead the
market upward. It is now market history that the airplane stocks as a group were

the strongest on the Now York Stock Exchange, and many of these stocks doubled
and tripled in value during 1938.

Again We Repeat:
“Prove all things and hold fast to that which is good."

1939—The Stock Forecast called for high January 3rd, the Dow-Jones Industrial Averages
made high January 4th and started to decline.
rr re ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

15

The Forecast indicated low for January 2ist to 23rd, the averages reached low
January 26th.

February 4th to 6th indicated high, averages made high February 6th.
February 21st to 23rd indicated low, averages made low February 2Ist.
March 4th to 6th indicated high, averages made high March 10th.

March 8th to 9th and 24th to 25th indicated low, averages made low March 22nd
and 28th.

April 19th to 20th called for last low, averages made low April 11th.
May 16th - 17th indicated high, averages made high May !0th to !5th.

June 7th to 9th indicated high, averages made high June 9th, and a sharp decline
followed. ;

June 23rd to 24th indicated low, averages made low June 29th to 30th.

July 28th to 29th indicated high, averages made high July 25th to 28th.
August 4th to 5th indicated low, averages made low August 5th and 7th.

The 1939 Forecast was issued and mailed to subscribers on November 14th, 1938.

We are sure that anyone will agree that such accurate, long-range forecasting cannot be

done by guess-work. You can learn to make forecasts one year or more in advance when
you learn how to apply the rules taught with the Master Forecasting Method.

What Others Say of W. D. Gann's Methods:

Below we print copies of letters received from two prominent business men, many other

letters on file in our office from people who have used Mr. Gann's Courses of Instruction
and followed his advice.

New York, N. Y.
March 16, 1933.

My Dear Mr. Gann:

| am very glad to write you a letter stating my personal observation of the application
of your system to trading in Cotton.

On November 30, 1923, starting with a capital of $973.00 you showed a clear profit
of over $30,000. at the close of business on January 28, 1924. This profit was made
through the purchase .and sale of contracts for the delivery and sale of cotton on the
New York Cotton Exchange through one of the leading New York brokerage offices. |
personally know of all the trades made in this commodity for the account, having received
advices of your operations, from the broker on the day following the day each trade was
made.

On January 29, 1924, a check for $24,764.04 was drawn against the account and deliy-
ered to a person with whom | am personally acquainted.

Cc. M.

New Bern, N. C.

August 23rd. 1937

I have known Mr. W. D. Gann for many years. | have been in his office on Wall Street.
have seen him trade with his method and take the money out of the market. With it he

has made a fortune in speculation. And he does not need the money he gets for his
method or market service any more then Mr. Ford does for sale of cars.

12
16

His method has been used by me since 1927, successfully. In my opinion, it is the only
one with which one can make money in the market and keep it. If you will follow his

method and the rules he lays down, you will also make a success and | can assure you
without it you will make a failure.

This statement is made after having read every book | could find on the subject,

including the lives of all the big operators of the past and subscribed to every financial
paper published and most of the market services.

Cc. K.

Results of Trading According To Rules

One of the rules is fcr trading in fast moves after the market gives a definite signal
for a big move up or down. This rule gets you in the market when activity starts and

keeps you in until the move has run its course, enabling you to make large profits in a
comparatively short period of time.

Trading in the Dow-Jones 30 Industrial Averages beginning June 5th, 1897 to July 25th,

1939 you would have been in the market 1283 weeks or 241/5 years out of a total of
42 years. e

Total number of points profit would have been.

2,367.
Average points profit per month... 1.84
Profits on 100 shares of stock would have been - $236,700.00
(without pyramiding or ever trading in more than 100 sh.)
Figures do not allow for errors in judgment, commission or interest,
making a liberal deduction of 25% to cover same—_._______ 9,175.00
Net profit on 100 shares, or a capital of $3,000 $177,525.00

You could have started trading in 1897 in 100 shares on a capital of $1,000.00 but

according to the methods and rules you should have started with a capital of $3,000.00
for trading in 100 shares.

Should you have traded in the active leading stocks at all times, instead of the aver-

ages, the profits would have been much greater because the active leaders moved from
one to three times as many points as the average.

Dow Jones 20 Railroad Averages May 1897 to March 1914 and Dow Jones 30 Industrial

Averages February 1913 to June 1939, trading according to the rules during the above
periods, show possible points: . :

Advances 2,085.52
Possible decline 2,012.42
Total points _ : : 4,097.94
Points made on Advance . 1,336.78
Points made on Decline... uidgese rece 1,236.13
Total = — 2,572.91
Percentage of total points made to possible points... Lu. wb
Percentage of all points made on the up-side or Bull Market....... —.-...-_.64 Ge

Percentage of points made on the down-side or Bear Market. 22. cena. 61.47%

WW

ee ea Re ae rrr oPre,w PF Pewee =
ee ee
=e Ee ee Se eS
Pre ee ee

17

Total number of trades made

era sis een
Total number Ol Vere eee ee renee es _ ee - 42
Average number of trades per yearn... —————————— ces |

(Slightly above 4 per year)
Net profit per year on 100 shares... $6,125.74
Net profit on 100 shares from 1897 to 1939 pes $257,291.00
Figuring an original investment of $5,000.00
Equity as of June 30th, 1939 would be. $262,291.00
Value of $100. invested in 1897 &s of June 1939_. $5,145.82
COMPARISON OF DOW THEORY AND
W. D. GANN'S METHOD
BASED ON DOW JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES
1897 to September 1937

Advantage

Dow's Mr. Gann's of Mr. Gann's

Theory: Method: Method:
Total points made ‘718.54 2,118.03 1,399.49
Points made long side - 416.37 1,127.40 711.03
Points made short side 302.17 990.63 688.46
Average number of points per year 17.5 51.66 34.16
Total profit made on 100 shares $71,854.00 $2.1 1,803.00 $139,949.00
Profit per year on 100 shares 1,752.54 5,165.92 3,413.38
$100. invested in 1897 equals 3,602.88 5,177.37 1,574.49

Trades per year average UZ trade of 3.4

| every 2 yrs.

The Dow Theory as well as Mr. Gann'’s Method are subject to the human element and
errors in determining when the combination occurs naturally will arise. No deduction
from the above figures is made for errors or for commission and expenses. The compu-
tation anu the results of the Dow Theory is based upon what we believe to be the best
opinion. Mr. Gann's Method is based upon his own interpretation of his rules.

How You Can Make Profits

You can become a successful trader or investor if
mathematical rules which determine the trend
ments.

you acquire knowledge and learn the
of Stocks end Commodity market move-

The Bible says “Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free". When

you have learned the truth about stocks you will no longer buy on hope or sell on fear,

tA

you will face facts and be free to act on judgment based on rules that you know always
have worked and always will.

Why I Can Teach You To Succeed

| have paid the price in time and money to discover,
practical and get results.

test and prove, rules that are,
of business and that after

You will agree that 36 years experience is valuable in any line

I have spent that much time in study and research | can teach
you the rules that will take the gamble out of Stock Market trading and make it a safe

and profitable business. The man who devotes all the time to any business will learn
more about it than the man who only studies it a short time.

If the average man or woman would only spend the first few hundred dollars they lose
in the market

in acquiring knowledge and learning the rules for buying and selling at the
right time, they would then make profits—not losses.

Your Son's or Daughter's Future

A men can leave his son or daughter a million dollars or more and they can lose it
quickly if they have not learned th

| e rules how to invest it safely. My Course of Instruc-
tions will teach any one how to preserve his capital and make profits. They must be will-
ing to study and work hard.

Forecasting Business
Good Positions For Students

Changed conditions due to Government
Europe, make it necessary for every business
to meet competition. It makes no difference
a seller of the finished product, he must be

and guage future demand as closely as possible in order to make a profit in business.
This creates a good position for a man who can accurately forecast business conditions
and changes. The young man who prepares himself and becomes an expert in forecasting
business, Commodities, Stocks and Bonds, will find a demand for his services. Estates
must have an expert to handle their investments and once a man has proven his ability
to increase the profits of a large estate he will find he can name his own terms as to
salary. Money must have brains and experts to increase its earning power. Large estates
can and will pay a man who can keep capital intact and prevent losses. The Investment

Counsellor will find the future holds a bright outlook for him if he knows his business
and has fully prepared himself.

interference, regulations and changes jn
man to forecast his own business in order
whether a manufacturer of raw material or
able to forecast future business conditions

What the Course ‘Consists of
The Complete Course is in Four Lessons:

LESSON |. Form Reading or Picture Method. A great improvement on the Dow Theory.
Formations or how to forecast the trend by certain formations by fixed rules which
help to make your judgment accurate. Examples are given to prove the rules.
With this lesson you learn from the picture or formation and after experience your
eyes will recognize a formation and know what it means.

LESSON Il. Resistance Levels. Where stocks meet buying or selling and make bottom
and top. Definite mathematical rules, practical and proven that make profits. They
are easy to learn and apply. All buying and selling points marked plainly on the
charts and rules given why to buy or sell at certain points. Anyone should be able
to lear this lesson in three days’ time and ‘make substantial profits with this Lesson

alone, This method keeps you with the trend and enables you to buy near low levels
and sell near top.

LESSON Ill. Time Elements and Time Rules. There is a definite relation between price
and time, When time is up stocks make top and start down. When time is up and

rs

18
—

= er eS
a ae

ma eS SS eS PE SE es

ee eS pe" 4’

oO]

the time cycle runs out stocks meke
how high stocks are selling,
how low they are they can 9

bottom and start up.
they can go higher until time +
© lower until time is up.

It makes no difference
uns out and no matter

Time is the most important factor in dete
Very few people understand the time ele
learn when the right time comes ¢
portant buying points:

I,
ye
3.

tmining and forecasting market movements.
ment and its value. With this lesson you
© buy and you know according to time three im-

When near extreme low levels. With limited risk.
A safer buying point at a certain time period.

The safest buying point after the market gives the third time signal.

These rules give the three
will be able to make u
individual stock.

LESSON IV. Volume of Sales. New, up-to-date
and higher margin requirements have cha
Sales is the driving power that moves the
will change at top or bottom. The volu
forms on volume never published or use

selling levels according to time. With this method you

Pp @ forecast one year or more in advance on the average or

» since the Security Exchange regulation
nged volume of sales. The Volume of
market but time determines when volume

me rules are proven by charts, rules end
d by anyone else.

Results from the Methods
1896 to 1939-43 years with Dow Jones Averages.

No. 1 Course of Instructions

‘CONSISTING OF TWO LESSONS:
ts
Zz

Form Reading or picture method. Some Time Rules and Formations. 8B. W. points.

Resistance levels make it easier to operate with first lesson.

Gives more mathe-
matical confirmations of why to buy and sell at certain points.

In order to help those who are worthy and trying to help themselves, | am making a
very reasonable price on these courses so that young students and people of small means
can get started on their Investment Education. At a small cost and with a small capital

students may start trading after they have gained knowledge and make profits.

The price is $500.00; payable $300.00 cash in advance.

Easy terms on the balance, or
can be paid after you make profits.

No. 2 Complete Course of Instructions
CONSISTING OF FOUR LESSONS:

This is a more complete course than | have sold for $5,000.00 in former years and it
is worth $5,000.00 or more to anyone who will study it and use it. To help others who
need help and are trying to make a success, | am making a low price of $1,000.00 for the
Complete Course which includes a Weekly High and Low Chart on Dow-Jones 20 Rail-
road Averages: 1896 to 1914, a Weekly High and Low Chart on Dow-Jones 30 Industrial
Averages 1914 to date. A swing Chart on 30 Industrials 1896 to date. Weekly High
and Low Charts on five active stocks that you select or we select, these Charts will be
for two or three years back, according to the stock and market positions at the time.

Terms arranged if you are not in position to pay all cash in advance.

No. 3 Master Forecasting Method

This Method contains all of the Form Rules,

and my secret discovery of the Master Time Fa
Mathematical Rules that are simple and practica

Resistance Level and Volume of Soles
ctor and a new way of Forecasting by

A
MATHEMATICAL RULES OR REASONS:

firmations or reasons why a stock
greater number of confirmations ¢
each of my Lessons and Courses te
first Course or previous Lessons.

It is possible to get es many os nine con-
should be bottom or top at a certain time and the

he surer the chances of making profits. That is why
ach you more rules to confirm what you learned in the

Master Charts that save time and work go with this Course, Master High anc Low
Charts ten to forty-five years back.

This Course gives mathematical proof of how |
forecast the 1929 Bull Market and the Panic which followed to 1932. _

Price of complete Master Forecasting Course $2500.00 cash in advance.

Terms can
be arranged with part cash and balance on monthly payments.

Correspondence Course

Anyone can learn a Course by correspondence because everything is made plain. The
buying and selling points are marked on the Charts and Rules why we buy or sell at o

certain point. However, you can make greater progress if you can arrange for a few
days personal instruction. .

WHY YOU CAN MAKE MORE PROFITS TRADING
IN COMMODITIES THAN STOCKS

In trading according to my Mechanical Method & Trend Indicator or according to my

1936 New Master Forecasting Methods on Cotton, Grain, Rubber and other commodities,
there are many advantages over trading in stocks:

1. Commodities follow a seasonal trend and are much easier to forecast. They move
with supply and demand.

2. It requires much less work to keep up charts and calculations on Commodities.
There are 1200 stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange and you must keep
a separate chart on as many of them as you wish to forecast the trend of.

With Cotton, you. need one to three charts, and the same with Grain.

3. When you have a forecast made up for Cotton or Grain, if you are right, you are
“sure to make money because all options follow the same trend. There are no
cross-currents as in stocks, with some stocks declining to new low levels and other
making new highs.

4. In dealing in Futures, there are no heavy interest charges as there are when long
of stocks and no dividends to pay as when short of stocks.

5.

Dividends can be suddenly passed or declared which will affect stock prices. This
cannot happen to commodities.

& Pools cannot manipulate a commodity as they can a stock.

7. Facts about commodities are general known while many stocks are mystery stocks
all the time and some stocks are subject to false rumors.

8. The stages of the business cycle tell more about the prices of commodities than they
do about stocks. :

9. Commodities are governed only by demand and supply. This is not always true
of stocks,

10.

Speculation in commodities is more legitimate than speculation in stocks because
you are dealing in a necessity.

11, Commodities are consumed. Stocks are not. This has a bearing upon the ease
in forecasting commodity prices,

20

Cc"
Zz

= re we es wee eee "Ff

= Fe ES eS

13. Stock prices tend to move by groups of stocks, while commodities move indepen-
dently.

14. Noteblo speculetors, like Livermore and Dr. E. H. Crewford, have discovered after
long experience that they make money with greater certeinty in commodities.

15. Stocks go into receivers’ mands and go out of business. Commodifies go on
forever. Crops are planted and hervesied each year.

16. There is elways a demand by consumers for commodities, which is not the caso
with stocks.

17. Since the Securities Exchange Law wes passed. marginal requirements are much
higher on stocks than on Commodities. Therefore, you con mate more money on
the same cepital treding in Cotton, Wheat, Corn, Rubber or other markets.

18. When you learn the rules for forecasting and trading in Commodities, they never
change because we will always have wheet, corn, end cotton crops every yeen
and these crops will be consumed, while stocks change end you heve to study new
stocks to keep up with changed conditions.

COMMODITY METHODS

The prices of my Commodity Methods are less than Stock Methods because it requires
less time to teech them and « small number of charts ere needed:

MECHANICAL METHOD AND TREND
INDICATION COVERING COTTON OR GRAIN

Price $600.00 Terms: $300.00 cash in advance; balance in monthly payments. Anv man
cen leern this Method easily thru correspondence in @ few days. With this Method wa
furnish weecly charts running beck 2 to 3 years, daily charts and « trend chart; instruc-
tions how to work the Method; rules for telling where to buy end sell, where to plece
stop loss orders end when to pyremid. Cotton and Grain Methods combined, price
$1,200.00 Terms: $500.00 cash in edvence, balance in monthly payments.

FORECASTING METHOD ON COTTON OR GRAIN

Contains Master Time Factor:

Price $1,500.00 Terms: $750.00 cash; balance in monthly payments. With this Method
you get charts on cotton back to 186% (monthly) and with the Grein Method chert run-
ning beck to 1642 (monthly), elso weekly and daily cherts, Master tables, Resistance
Levels and Resistance Cards. You ere taught the Master Time Factor and how to, make
up «@ forecast one or more years in advance.

Cotton and Grain Methods combined, price $2,500.00 Terms: $1,500.00 cash in ed-
vence, balance in monthly payments.

KNOWLEDGE IS POWER

Webster seid: “The men who cen teach me something is the man | went to know." You
mey think my prices are high, but stop to consider that you have the use of these Methods
during your entire lifetime and thet the knowledge | teach will be worth the money for
one week's trading at criticel times. You cen easily lose in the merket the price you
would pay for my Course and the market leeves you with no valueble knowledge after
your losses. Learn to see end know for yourself what Commodities will do; then you
will make a success.
P.O. BOX 223
WALL STREET STATION
NEW YORK 5,N. Y.
W. D. GANN W. D. GANN
820 S.W. 26 Road

22

Special Rates in Classes
For College Students

I will make a special rate to students where classes of five or more take the course at
the same time.

Time Required to Learn the Course

Time required depends on the student. His education, experience and practical knowl-
edge of stocks and commodities. If you have read my books or kept up charts you will
learn in a much shorter time than one who has had no experience or special training.
However, anyone who can add, subtract, multiply and divide can learn how to epply my
rules. School teachers learn easy. The amount of time you put in studying each day
or week will determine how soon you can learn the rules and start trading.

Some learn in one week, some in three weeks and others in three months, but one

thing is sure, the longer you study the more you learn. Each yeer you will know more
and practice will make you perfect.

Trade on Paper

| recommend that all students start trading on paper until they are sure how to apply
the rules. You learn by doing and mistakes made on paper will prevent actual losses
later. Never be in a hurry. Be sure you are right, then act and success is sure.

Health Is Wealth

Good health is essential for success in any business and for active trading in Stocks and
Commodities. Keeping your health perfect is just as important as protecting your capital.

Why I Live in Miami

I have learned the value of good health and that is why | have a winter home in Miami,

Florida. | give personal instruction to individuals or classes in Miami from October Ist
to May Ist every year.

New York, N. Y.
Miami. Flerida
> Pm eee eS ee eee eee

23

CHAPTER 2

FORM READING

AND

RULES FOR DETERMINING

TREND OF STOCKS

Wii dis tow Tape” W. D. GA NN MEMBER

New Orleans Cotton Exchange
“Wall Strcet Stock Selector” Statistician and Economist Commodity Exchange, Inc. N.Y.
“New Stock Trend Detector”

82 WALL STREET ; on eerily
NEW YORK, N. Y.

2101 N. W. 18th TERRACE
MIAMI. FLA,

FORM READING

and

RULES FOR DETERMINING TREND OF STOCKS

REQUIREMENTS FOR SUCCESS IN SPECULATION OR INVESTMENT

KNOWLEDGE

One of the vital and most important factors for making a success in speculation
or anything else is KNOWLEDGE. The well-posted man or the man who knows bis busi-

ness is the man. who succeeds. Therefore, put it down as a rule that hard work in
acquiring knowledge will surely bring succese in speculation or business.

PATIENOE

After you have acquired knowledge you will need to. learn PATIENCE, if you have
not already learned the value of patience. You must learn to wait for a definite
indication of a change in trend before buying or gelling. You must not guess or
‘gamble on hope or fear.. You must have ability to act and to act quickly at the

right time, acting after you have acquired knowledge and know it is the time to
act.

COURAGE

You must have the COURAGE to act. Courage and boldness will come after you
have acquired knowledge because you will have confidence in proven rules and con-

fidence in your ability. Therefore, the acquiring of knowledge will give you the
courage for action at the time when the real opportunity comes,

STUDY

A man who will not work hard and STUDY and pay in advance for success will
never get it. If you will put in the time, study, and go over the records of the
Dow-Jones Industrial averages from 1892 to date, you will be convinced that the

rules work and that you can make money by following the main trend of the market.
25

Ded = all all = all ae esses el

FORM READING

Lighty-five per cent of whet any of us learn is from what we sec. It hag been
well said, "One picture is worth a thousand words." That is why FORM READING or
the reading of various formations at different periods of time is eo valuable.
The future is but a repetition of the past. The same formation at topes or bottoms
or intermediate points at different times indicates the trend of the market.
Therefore, when you see the same picture or formation in the market the second and
third time, you know what it means and can determine the trend.

You do not have to accept my word that the rules I give you will work in the
future as they have in the past but you owe it to yourself to prove by past re-
cords that these rules work; then you will have the faith to follow them and make
money.

CAPITAL REQUIRED

The first point to consider in operating any method on the stock market is the
amount of capital required, with which you can trade and never lose your capital
and over a period of 5, 10 or 15 years be able to make profits, because a method
that will make profits and never lose your capital is the kind of a method that

every man should follow to make a success.

As a general rule, I have always considered it advisable to use at least $3,000
capital for every 100 shares of stock traded in and to limit stop loss orders to
not more than 3 points on every 100 shares. In this way you will be able to make
10 trades on your capital and the market would have to beat you 10 consecutive
times to wipe out your capital, which it will not do. Whatever amount of capital
you use to trade with, follow this rule: Divide your capital into 10 equal parts
and never riek more than 10% of your capital on any one trade. Should you lose
for 3 consecutive times, then reduce your trading unit and only risk 10% of your
remaining capital. If you follow this rule, your success is sure.

On stocks selling around $15 to $30 per share, you can start with a capital of
$1,500. The first trade should be made at a time when you can place a stop loss
order not more than 2 points away and you should try to start when your risk will
only be 1 point. In other words, with a capital of $1,500 you must figure that
you would be able to make at least 7 to 10 trades and the market would have to
beat you 7 to 10 consecutive times to wipe out your trading capital. With this

Method it ig impossible for that to happen, provided you follow the rules and
trade on definite indications.

This Method will make the most money trading in high-priced stocks, and for

trading in stocks selling above $100 per share, you should use a capital of $4,000
and adhere strictly to all the rules. :

If you want to start trading in small units of stock, use a capital of $300 for
each 10 echares and never risk more than 3 points on the initial trade. Try to
make the first trade, if possible, where your stop loss order will not be more
than 1 or 28 points. Never risk more than one-tenth of your capital on any one
trade.

KIND OF CHARTS TO USE

A busy men or specialist should keep a weekly high and low chart on the Dow-~
Jones 30 Industrial averages and the 15 Public Utility averages and should keep

t

weekly high and low charts on 5 to 10 of the leading active stocks in the differ-

ent groups. He could also keep up monthly high and low charts ona few stocks
selling below 20 or below 10 and watch these different low-priced stocks when they
indicate a change in trend. By crossing old tops and showing activity, it would

indicate a good time to buy them,

MAJOR AND MINOR TRENDS

You will always make the most money by following the main trend of the market,
altho to say that you must never trade against the trend means that you will miss
alot of intermediate moves which will make big profits, but your rule must be:
When you are trading against the trend, wait wntil one of your rules fives you afj

definite indication of a buying or selling point at bottom‘ or top, where you can
place close stop loss orders,

There are always two trends--a major trend and a minor trend. The minor cxena ll
is a reversal of the mein trend, which lasts for a short period of time. When the
main trend is down, it is much safer to gell stocks short on rallies ata point
where the rules indicate that they are top than it is to buy on a reaction. ina
Bull Campaign or advancing market, it is much safer to wait for minor reactions

-and buy when the rules indicate that it is time to buy than it is to sell short = |
rallies. You will always make the most money by waiting for a definite indication
of the trend before buying and selling.

This Green Trend Line indicates uptrend, either the minor or the main trend, L

TREND LINE INDICATIONS

GREEN TREND LINE

We.use the GREEN TREND LINE for an advancing market or when a Etockyor the av-
erages are making higher tops and higher bottoms each week. The first week that a
higher bottom and a higher top io made than a previous week, the Green Trend Line
is moved up to the top of that week. Then, as long as the stock or the everages

make higher bottoms and higher tops, the Green Trend Line continues to be moved up
to the high point of each week.

RED TREND LINE , L

The first week that a stock or the averages make a lower bottom than the previ-
ous week, the Trend Line changes to red and is moved down to the low of that week
and continues to be moved down as long as the stock or the averages make lower
bottoms. This Red Trend Line means that the minor or the main trend has turned -
down and that you should follow the RED TREND LINE until it reverses. The first

week a higher bottom and a higher top - are made,. the Trend Line changes again to
green. . :

BUY WHEN THE RED TREND LINE CHANGES TO-GREEN a . L,
SELL WHEN THE GREEN TREND LINE CHANGES TO RED L

For atudy purposes we have used the Dow-Jones 20 Railroad Stock averages
weekly high and low ... from 1896 to July, 1914, because the rails were leaders
Guring that period and moved faster, making a wider Tange, than the Industriel [J
Stocks, thercfore, were better trend indicators and more profitable to trade in.

td

26
2

oo

You should follow the ‘trend Lines and apply the rules given here for buying
points:

THREE BUYING POINTS

1 - BUY AT OLD BOTTOMS OR OLD TOPS
When a stock declines to an old bottom or to an old top, it is always a buying
point with a stop loss order. In fact, you should never buy unless you can

figure where to place a stop loss order 1 to 3 points away and in high-priced
stocks never more than 5 points away.

Remember, it is safe to buy when a stock reacts to old tops the first, second
or third time, but when it declines to the same level the fourth time, it is
dangerous to buy as it nearly always goes lower.

Buy when a etock declines 1 to 3 pointe under old tops or old bottoms. How-
ever, a stock is always strongest if it holds just around the old tops or old

bottoms and does not break 1 to 3 points under. Holding slightly higher than
these old levels is a still stronger indication.

5 points under the old tops but not more, and if the market is really strong,
they should not go as much as 5 points under, except in. very rare cases when
the market is in a wide trading range and very active.

2 - SAFER BUYING POINT

» .

Buy when a stock crosses former tops or crosses a series of tops of previous

weeks, showing that the minor or the main trend has turned up as indicated by.
the Green Trend Line.

™“

=~

3 - SAFEST BUYING POINT

Buy on a secondary reaction after a stock has crossed previous weekly tops and
the advance exceeds the greatest rally on the way down from the top.

Stocks selling above $100 a share-- After they cross old tops they can react

Buy when the first rally from the extreme bottom exceeds in time the greatest

rally in the preceding Bear Campaign,

| Buy when the period of time exceeds the last rally before extreme lows were
reached. If the last rally was 3 or 4 weeks, when the advance from the bottom
= is more than 3 or 4 weeks, - consider the trend has turned up and stocks are a
| safer buy on a secondary reaction. | Examples later will prove this rule,
= THREE SELLING POINTS :
| When we refer to selling points we mean to either sell out long stocks or sell
= short. é :
1 1 - SELL AT OLD TOPS OR OLD BOTTOMS
7 An important point to seli out longs and go short is at old tops or when a,
l stock rallies to old bottoms the first, second or third time. As a rule, it

rrr

7
a
lo risky to 9011 tho fourth timo that a ptook advances to tho same lovel be- i
cause it nearly elways gooa higher, When you.sell short, place stop. loss. or-
ders 1, 2, or 3 points above old tops or old bottoms.

When prices are at high levels above $100, the averages can go 5 points above
old tops or 5 points above old bottoms without changing the main trend, - But
this seldom happens, as a study of previous tops and bottoms will prove. As a
rule, when the market jis weak and the main trend down, the rally stops right
under old bottoms and should not go more than 2 points above them: If it goes

3 points above, it is an indication that the market is strong and likely to go
higher. If it declines under these old levels, this indicates that the market

is very weak. L

2 - SAFER SELLING POINT

Sell when a stock breaks the low of a previous week or a series of bottoms ot
provious woecks as indioated ‘Dy the Trond Line,

3 - SAFEST SELLING POINT

Sell on a secondary rally after the stock has broken thé previous bottoms of
Beveral weeks or has broken thé bottom of the. last. reaction, turning trend

down. This secondary rally nearly always comes after the first sharp decline
in the first section of a Bear Campaign.

Sell after the first decline exceeds the greatest reaction in. the precedes
Bull Campaign or the last reaction before final top.

Sell when the period of time of the first decline exceeds the last reaction
before final top of the. Bull Campaign. Etample: If a stock has’ Bdyanced for
Several months or for one year or more and the greatest reaction has been four
Weeks.... which is an average reaction in a Bull Market ... then after top is
reached and the first decline runs more than 4 weeks, it is an ‘indication of a

change in the minor trend or the main trend. The stock will be a safer short ;

Bale on any rally because you will be trading with the trend after it hae been
definitely defined.

FORMATIONS AT BOTTOMS AND. TOPS

By studying stock formations of the past you will be = to determine what is
going to happen when similar formations occur in the future, just as you know that
there is going to be a rainstorm when you see a heavy dark cloud form,

After accumulation or distribution -at bottom or top has been completed, there
is a BREAKAWAY POINT.

very quickly.

When you buy or sell stocks at this point, you make honey —

Study the volume of sales, the space and price. aieamanen and the last and most--
important time period. Similar a¢tion of the market occurs, around the same month.

years apart. When we come to the Lesson on "Volume" it will give you more rules J
and information,

Study the differetit types of bottom formations-- Sharp, double, triple, flat i
and ascending bottoms.

28 7
a Oe)

-__ ee ' all = = pea == aa

SINGLE "V" OR SHARP BOTTOM

This formation can be a sharp, fast decline followed by a fast advance, or evén
a slow decline followed by a quick rally from the pottom with no secondary reac-
tions until it advances to higher levels.

Example: July 26, 1910, the Dow-Jones 20 Railroad averages had o sharp decline

to 105¢; then rallied sharply to 1142 ... a 9-point advance with no reactions
... and did not later go back to make a double bottom.

"yu" BOTTOM OR FLAT BOTTOM

This "U" bottom is a formation where a stock remains for 3 to 10 weeks or more
jn a narrow trading range, making about the game top and bdttom levels several
times; then when it crosses the intermediate tops, it has formed a "U" or flat
bottom and is at the breakaway point ... a safe place to buy.

Example: March 12 to April 30, 1898 ... The 20 Railroad averagos held betweeh °
56 and 60, hitting the bottom level 4 times. This was a flat bottom and when
they crossed 60, the averages indicated higher: prices,

"W" BOTTOM OR DOUBLE BOTTOM

When a stock declines and makes bottom; then ralliee for 2 to 3 weeks or more;
declines and makes a bottom around the same level the second time; -then advances
and crosses the previous top, it has formed a "W" or double bottom. It is safe to

‘ puy when it crosses the top or middle of the "W" ... which is the BREAKAWAT POINT,

Example: December 23, 1899, low 73}.° June 23, 1900, low 73.

uw V" BOTTOM OR TRIPLE BOTTOM

This is @ third higher bottom after a’ double bottom or three bottoms near the
same level. It is safe to buy wheh & stock has formed a "W" and a "V" on the side
and crosses the second top of the "Wi",

Example: Dec. 23, 1899 - 1st bottom at 72}
Jun. 23, 1900 ~ 2nd bottom at 73
Sep. 29, 1900 - 3rd bottom at 732
This formed a "WY" bottom and after the averages advanced above 78..
the BREAKAWAY POINT ... a runaway advance followed, the merket ad+
vancing 44 points in 28 weeks.

uW W" BOTTOM OR 4-BOTTOM FORMATION

This formation shows first, second, third and fourth bottoms. The safest point
to buy is at the BREAKAWAY POINT or when a stock crosses the middle point of the
second "W". ?

Example: Aug. 8, 19035, low 90¢ ....... rallied to 982 on Aug. 22, 1903
Oct. 17, 1903, low 89-3/8 ,... rallied to 99-5/8 on Jen. 23, 1904
Mch. 19, 1904, low 9124 .....,. rallied to 97% on Apr. 16, 1904
May 21, 1904, low 933
~ Aes

LAST STAGE OF BULL OR BEAR MARKET

In fast, advancing markets in the last stege of the campaign reactions get

snialler as stocks work to higher levels, wntil the final section or run has ended,
Then comes a sharp, quick reaction and a reversal in trend. -

In the last stage of a Bear Market, after all old bottoms and resistance levels
have been broken, rallies get lese or smaller as prices work lower. Therefore,
people who buy have no chance to sell on rallies until the final bottom has been
reached and the first rally takes place.

This is why it never pays to buck the trend in the last stage of a Bull Market
or the last stage of a Bear Market.

RANGE OF BOTTOMS

Never consider that a major or a minor trend has reversed or changed until the
bottoms of previous weeks have been broken or the tops of previous weeks have been
crossed. The number of points that a stock or the averages should decline below a
bottom to indicate a change in trend to lower levels, varies according to the
price at which the averages or the stock is selling. We consider a range within 1
to 3 points a double or triple bottom or a double or triple top. In a strong mar-
ket a stock will break only 1 point under a bottom and then rally and, in extreme

cases, not more than 2 points. As a rule when bottoms are broken by 3 full ports
it is an indication for lower prices before any rally of importance,

RANGE OF TOPS

3

The same at the top. The range for double tops is about 3 points. These tops
can be in a range of 1 to 3 points and still be considered double and tyiple tops.
Advancing 1 to 2 points above an old top does not always indicate that the main
trend has changed and that stocks are going up immediately but advancing 3 points
above old tops is nearly always a definite indication that higher prices'will fol-

low tefore much reaction. At the end of Bull or Bear Markets some false moves are
often made and quick reversals follow.

HOW FAR SHOULD STOCKS DECLINE BELOW OLD TOPS-AFTER THEY ADVANCE ABOVE THEM?

In order to still show uptrend, after a'stock or the averages have advanced
above old tops, then reacted, when in strong position they will stop right around
the old tops or sometimes go 1 to 2 points below-the old tops but seldom more than
3. Regardless of how high a stock is selling, a decline of more than 5 points be-
low the old top would indicate that the trend had reversed and at that immediate
time the stock would not go higher but would go lower for awhile, It can decline
5 points under old tops and still be in a Bull Market, all depending on what sec-
tion the market is in. A signal in the last section is most important. ‘

HOW FAR STOCKS CAN GO ABOVE OLD BOTTOMS IN BEAR MARKETS

Reverse this rule in a Bear Market. When stocks advance to old bottoms, they ~

are short sales because bottoms become tops and tops become bottons. They should
not go more than 1 to 2 points above the old bottoms and on an average stould not
go more than 3 points. Therefore, even when stocks are at high levele if they ad-
vance more than 5 points above an old bottom, it is an indication that they are
going highér and are not going to work lower immediately with the main trend.

30

31

1A®

SEVERAL FAST MOVES UP OR DOWN OVER A RANGE OF 5 TO 7 OR 10 TO 12 POINTS

Whether the market is very active or ina slow trading range, all indications
are more accurate and more valuable when the market is quite active.

After a stock or the averages have been advancing for some time and have run
out 3 or 4 section, if there are several moves of 10 to 12 points up or down ina
range, making several bottoms and several tops in this range, it indicates either
accumulation or distribution. When the. bottoms in a range of this kind are broken
it is an indication of lower prices and when the tops in a range of this kind are
crossed, it is an indication of higher prices. Note the range on sideways accumu-
lation and the range on sideways distribution.

An advancing market may have several reactions of 10 to 12 points; then have a
reaction of 20 to 24 points;then after an advance if it declines from any top more
than 20 points, it will usually run 30 to 40 points. Go over the stocks or aver-
ages when they have been selling at very high levels and prove to yourself the
value of this rule. ,

WHEN THE MARKET IS IN STRONGEST POSITION OR IN WEAKEST POSITION

A stock or the averages are in the strongest position after there has been a
prolonged decline and the market starts making higher bottoms, especially after a
sharp, fast decline, when rallies have been small.: after the 2nd or 3rd higher
pottom has been made and then the top of a previous rally has been crossed, the
stock is in thetetrongest position. Rising bottoms always indicate strength and
an advance usually starts from the 3rd or 4th higher bottom, that is, the big ad-

vance which runs for a long time with only small reactions. You make money quick-
est when you get in on a move of this kind.

Reverse this rule in a Bear Market. A market is weakest when it is making low-

er tops. The 3rd or 4th lower top is the safest place to sell. After the 3rd or
4th lower top, when it breaks the last low or previous bottom, it is in the weak-

est position and indicates that the main trend is down and declines will be fast-
er.

HOW TO DETERMINE CHANGE IN MINOR TREND

MINOR ADVANCE

When a market is advancing and makes a top around the same level for 2 or more
weeks, especially when the range is very narrow near top levels, then prices break
under the bottom of 2 weeks or more, the minor trend has turned down and you would
follow it until there is another definite indication of a change in trend.

MINOR REACTION

After the averages or a stock has been declining for several weeks or several
months and prices make bottom 2 weeks or more around the same level and hold in a
narrow trading range for 2 weeks or more and then cross the tops of 2 or 3 weeks

on the.upside, the minor trend hes changed, at least temporarily, and you should
go with it.
7

WHEN T0 USE DAILY HIGH AND LOW CHART - i

When markets are very active and fluctuating over a wide range, especially inf
the last stages of a Bull Market or the last fast decline in a Bear Market, you
should keep up a Daily high-and low Chart on the averages or individual stocks and
put on the Trend Lines, applying the same rules as used for the Weekly Chart, csc
cause the Daily Chart will give you the first change in the minor trend, which may
later be confirmed by the Weekly Chart into a change of the main trend. Full in-
structions will follow under "Resistance Levels." |
Again I remind you ... Don't try to get ahead of the market. Don't guess if |
is making a change in trend and be wrong. Wait until it shows a definite change
in trend. You will be right when you form your judgment after definite indication
is given according these rules. q

July 6, 1939

32

o>)

w |

1896
1897

1898

1899

1900

1901

1902

1903

1904

1905

1906

Aug.
Jan.
Apr.
Sep,
Nov.
Feb.
Mech.
Aug.
Oct.
Apr.
Jun.

Jul.

Nov.
Dec.
Apr.
Jun.

Aug.
Sep.

May
May
Jun.

Aug.

Sep.
Nov.
Jan.
Jul.
Aug.
Sep.
Jan.
Feb.
Dec.
Mch.
May
Sep.
dan.

Jun.
Jul.
Sep.

Nov.

29.

15
10

13
15
10
11

22
19
23
27

18
27

19
16
18

17

DOW-JONES 20 RAILROAD AVERAGES

BOTTOM AND TOP FORMATIONS

1896 - 1914

Sharp bottom or single "V" - Low 42.

to -23 and Merch 20 - Flat double top "M".

Sharp bottom and 4 weeks narrow.on side in 1-point range.
Sharp or "A" top at 1/2 point Prom 42 to 92.

Sharp or "V" bottom.

Flat top ... 2 weeks in l-point range.

to April 23 - Flat bottom eae triple bottom near same level.
Sharp top.

to Nov. 5 - Flat bottom ... 6 weeks in 1l-point range.

to 29 - Flat top ... 5 weeks in 2-point range.

Sharp bottom.

to Sep. 9-- Flat top ... 7 weeks in 2-point range}

lst lower top after April. ;

Sharp top :.. 4 weeks on side in 2-point range ... 2nd lower top.
Sharp bottom.

Sharp top ... 4th lower top. :

Sharp bottom ... lst higher bottom and double bottom ageinst
Dec. 1899 low.

Flat intermediate or middle top.

Sharp bottom ... a triple bottom and Grd higher bottom ... strong
and good. buying point.

Sharp top.

Sharp bottom .,. panic.

Sharp top ... 2 narrow’eeks on side ... a double top.

Sep. 14 and Oct. 12 - Sharp bottoms ... triple bottoms with 2nd
and 3rd bottoms higher than the lst ... strong.

A sharp top and sharp deoline followed.

and Deo. 13 - Two sharp bottoms 1% double bottoms.

Sharp top with 5 weeks on side in. 2-point range.

Sharp top ... 2 weeks rally followed.

Sharp top ... 3 weeks on side in 2-point range..

to Nov. 14 - Triple bottoms ... 3rd bottom higher.

Sharp or "A" top.

to Mch. 19 - Flat bottom ... 3 weeks in 2-point range.

Sharp top ... 3 weeks! reaction. ,

and Apr. 15 - A double flat top.

Sharp bottom,

to Nov. - Flat top but only declined 4 points.

Final sharp top ... sharp decline followed.

Sharp bottom ... sharp rally followed.

Sharp top ... sharp decline followed.

Sharp bottom ... sharp rally followed.

to Oct. 13 - Flat top... 7 weeks in 2-point range, just under
January top.

to Dec. 22 - Flat top ... 4 weeks in 3-point range. A panicky
decline followed this 3rd lower top.
BREAKAWAY POINTS IN BULL & BEAR MARKETS
DOW-JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES (Cont. )
STUDY THESE POINTS ON THE CHART

YEAR _. WEEKS POINTS
1925 Mey 9 Feb. 27, 1926 41 . 36
1926 Mch. 1 Apr. 17 9 19
1926 June 5 Aug. 21 11 18
1926 Sept. 12 Oct. 16 5 12
1927 Avr. 186 Sept. 24 22 31
1927 Sept. 30 Oct. 15 2 14
1928 Mch. 17° May 12 8 14
1928 Aug. 18 Oct. 8 15 68
1928 Oct. 8 to Oct. 22 2 24
1928 Oct. 22 _ Feb. 9, 1929 16 40
1929 Mch. 22 Mch. 30 1 4
1929 Apr. 30 May ill 2 8
1929 May 18 June 8 3 9
1929 July 6 Sept. 3 8 38
1929 ° Sept. 7 Nov. 13 9 160
1929 Nov. 16 Dec. 14 4 46
1930 Jan. 25 Apr. 17 13 38
1930 Apr. 19 July 5 a fs 64
1930 Sept. 20 Nov. 15 8 * 62
1930 Nov. 29 Dec. 20 3 27
1931 Feb. a7 Feb. 24 3 20
1931 Mch; 7 Jun, 2 12 64
1931 Jun. 9 Jul. 27 Z 27
1931 Jul. 2 Aug. 8 5 ah
1931 Aug. 31 Oct. 3 5 45
1931 Oot. 10 Nov. 9 4 R24
1931 Nov. 16 Jan, 9, 1932 8 42
1932 Moh, 19 July 8 17 38
1932 July 16 Sept. 8 8 ol
1932 Sept. 7 Oct. 30 iG 16
1933. Feb. 4 Feb. 27 3 8
1933 Apr. 8 Jul. 17 17 44
1933 July 18 Jul. 21 a 18
1933 Sept. 23 Oct. 21 4 15
1933 Nov. 18 Feb. 5, 1934 12 15
1934 May 5 Jul. 26 12 17
1934 Nov. 24 Feb. 23, 1935 : 14 8
1935 Apr. 13 Apr. 6, 1936 ~ 52 54
1936 Apr. 10 Apr. 30 , 4 ‘15
1936 May 30. Nov. 21 25 32
1936 Nov. 28 Deo. 26 (4 4
1937 Jan. 16 Mch. 8 ‘ 8 8
1937. Mch, 27 Jun. 17 14.” 22
1937 «Jul. 3 Aug. 14 -& 20
1937 Aug. 21 Oct. 19 9 65
1937 Oot. 19 Oct. 29 a 18
1957 Nov. 23 Jan. 15, 1938 7 15

34
YEAR

1938
1938
1938
1938
1939
1939
1939
1939
1939

Moh.
Jun.
Sept.
Sept.
Jan.
Moh.
Apr.
Jun.
Jun.

10
25
17
28
14
18
12
10
30

BREAKAWAY POINTS IN BULL & BEAR MARKETS
DOW-JONES SO INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES (Cont. )
STUDY THESE POINTS ON THE CHART

Mch.
Jul.
Sept.
Nov.
Jan.
Apr.
Jun.
Jun.
Jul.

31
25
26
10
28
11

30
25

‘WEEKS -

AG-oanrrpwv

POINTS

28
24
10
25
14
25
15

7
12

36

DOW JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

RESISTANOD LEVELS, Oont'd

COMPARATIVE BOTTOMS AND TOPS

1910 July 26
1911 ‘June 24
1911 sii 25

1912 Oct. 10

Made several bottoms around

Later Broke

1913 June 14

1913 Sept. & )
1914 March )

1914 July declined to

1914 Dec, 24

1915 May

1915 June

1919 Jan.

“1916 Apr.
1916 Nov. 21
1917 Feb. 2

1917 June 9

Low 73 5/8 was 1e of 42 to 103
High 8&7 was 1/2, of 73 5/8 to 100%
Low 75

was 1/2 of 48. to 103
and same low as July 26; 1910, - :
A doublé bottom and place. to buy.

High 94 yas 3/4.0f 73.5/B to 100$
88 was 3/4 of 53 to 100}
87 was 1/2 of 73 5/8 to 100}

Low 72 1/8 Was 3/8 of 53. to 103
and 1/2.of 42 to 103

A third time at this level .-
a buying aan ;

High 83 3/8

was ; 1/2 of 72 1/8 to 94 1/8
a and: 3/8 of 73 to 100$
71 1/4: under thres- old- bottoms.
and under : 1/2 of 42 - t9 103
and 19% - 8/8 of 68... to 103

A sure. eign of lower prices.

Low 653.1/8 ‘This was third time at thie tevel.

1900-- Low 53 "
1907-- Low 53
1914-- Low 83 1/
Holding above. 51g the 1/8 of 103
and 1/3 of ‘2 to 103
and 1/4 of 838. to 103

Made this a good support: and. ‘buying point
in a panic.

The Wer Bull Market Followed.

High 71 3/4: just under the. 8/8 of 53 to 103
and under three old bottoms.

Low cr a@ secondary reaction | .
was 1/3. of " 38} “oto 103

and 62 3/8 was 1/2 of 53 +48 to we =

High 99

Low 85 was .5/8 of 53° “to 103 :

High 110 1/8 a sharp reaction povidwes

Low 87 was 5/8 of 63 1/8 to 110 1/8

High 99 was 7/8 of 28%. to 110 1/8
and 1/2 of 85 to 110

Later broke all important 1/2 points

including 814 to 110 1/8

was 1/2 of 53

ye

—- > —,

|
RESISTANCE LEVELS, Cont'd

DOW JONES Ze INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

COMPARATIVE BOTTONS AND TOPS

; 1917 Deo. 19° Low 66 was 1/$ of 42 to 110 1/8

: and 3/8 of oe to 110 1/8

[ 1918 Oct, 19 High 89 was 3/4 of RBR | to 110 1/8

and 6/8 of 53: to 110 1/8

1919 Feb. 8 Low 79 1/8 was 1/2 of 58. to 110 1/8

| and 5/8 of 28} to 110 1/8
A Big Bull Market followed.

1919 Nov. 3 A New High 119 5/8. A sharp decline followed.
1920 Feb. 25 Low 90 was 3/4 of 26. to 110 1/8
and.6/8 of 42 - to 119 5/8
and 2/3 of 26} to 119 6/8
1920 Apr. 8- High 105 - was 6/8 of 79 1/8 to 119 5/8
: and 3/4 of 66 to 119 6/8
and Ve of 80 to 119 5/8
Later declined,
to 99 was, 1/2 of 79 1/8 to 119 5/8
1921 Aug. 24. Low . 64 .Just 2 points under 1917 Lows,
. "64 was 1/3 of 3 ta 119 5/8
62 5/8 was. 3/8.of 264 . to 119 5/8
This wes a final low and the greatest

| Bull Market in history followed.

(Note: When averages crossed 80 they

were above 1/2 of 42 to 119 6/8
and 1/2 of 38% to 119 5/8
Note: 91 7/8 was 1/2 of 119 5/8 to 64 and
after averages crossed 92 did not reach 91 before they advanced to 105 5/8
1923. Mar. 20 High 105 5/8 ‘was 3/4 of 64 to 119 5/8
1923 Oct. 27 Low 85 3/4 was 3/8 of 64 to 119 5/8
_ Sy. . 5/8 of | 264. to 119 5/8
, 1/2 ‘of 53 to 119 a/e

j A Strong Support Point. . :
1924 May 20 Last Low 88 3/8 was 2/3 of 28} to 119 5/8

1 1924 Dec. Crossed old’ top of 1919 at 119 5/8

A Big Bull Market followed.

| In view of the fact that the averages made - High 103 in 1906 and in ‘Lo1e ‘wade a

new High of 110 1/8 and in 1919 another reoord High 119 5/8 and in’ 1921 decline

- to 64, holding more than 4 points above 1/2 of 119 5/8, was a strong indication
of mych higher prices because of such a long period of time between ‘these top
levels. From January 1906 to December 1924, when averages went above 119 5/8,

was nearly 19 years: You could figure they would first double the highest sell-

ing price or made 240. After that figure was crossed, you figure three times
{ 119 5/8 of about 360.

#4.

RESISTANCE LEVELS, dont'd

DOW JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

COMPARATIVE oe AND TOPS

1929 Bept. 2 High 386
A : , If you. take the range foc extreme Low 28 to 119 5/8
the range was 91 1/8. Multiply this range by 4 and
we get 364}. asa probable. top. The. proper procedure
after the averages were in new high, was to follow
the tretid and use all rules until there was a change
in the main trond.

1926 July High 162% :
1926 Apr. Low 135 1/8 was just under
1/2 of 115 to 162$
150’ 5/8 was 1/2 of 162 to 135 1/8

When the averages..crosséd ° this evel the second time
they went right up to’ new highs,

1927 Oct. ‘High 199 °7/8° a,
1927 Oct. Low ‘179 Was'1/2 of 165-3/4 the last low
ie to 199 7/8
. 189 3/8. was 1/2 of 119 1/8 - to 179
When orossed this level never sold below 190$ again.

1928 Dea, * High 299. ; eae ce

1928 Deo. 12 Low ‘254 was ‘near ‘250 the 1/2 of 200 7/8 to-299
Holding above the 1/2 of last move indicated higher.

1929 Jan. High 3244

1928 Mar. 30 Low 281

279 was 1/2 of 284 to 3744 the

last low, and holding above ‘12 point was strong.

1929 May High. 381: Last ‘reagtion. before top

End of " Low “290 3/4 of 2814 to 331: was 2874
holding above this’ indicated support.

Then when orossed 306 the 1/2"6f 281 — to 331

and crossed 310} the 1/8 of 331 - to 290

indicated higher. ° :
1929 Sept. 3 High 386 © Final Top:

After the trend turned down, we calouleied the Resistance Points: from bottoms.
from 1896 to date, to get points to watch on the way down. The. first 1/2 point

of the lest move from 281} to 386, making 333 3/4, - this was" “broken on the
first decline to 321, which was 1/2 of 255 to 386. .

1929 Oot. Last Rally 358 the 1/2 of 386 * to 321
: was 253%, did not go 5 points above
it -- then broke wide open.
1929 Oct. 29 Low 213 was 1/2 of 384 ‘to 386
1929 Oot. 31 High 2734 was 2/3 of 42 to 386
and 2/3 of 53 to 386
and just under 2/3 of 64 to 386

ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eas

39
RESISTANCE LEVELS, Cont'd

DOW JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

COMPARATIVE BOTTOMS AND -TOPS

1931 June 2 Low 120 was 1/4 of 85 3/4 to 386
and 3/4 of 157}
and back to 1919 Top. A strong support

for a rally.
1931 June 27 High 157} was 1/3 of -42 to 386
. and just under 1/2 of 1974 to 120

and at Lows of Dec. 1930 made this a
Sure Selling Level. .

1931 Oot. 5 ‘Low 853 ‘Same Low as Oct. 27, 1923
85 was 1/8 of 386 to 42.
1931 Nov. 9 High 119 5/8 was under 1/2 of 1574 to 85}
and 1/4 of 284 to 386

and 1/8 of 85 3/4 to 386
A sharp decline followed.

1932 Jan. 7 Low 70 was 1/8 of 284 to 386
1932 Mar. 8 High 69% . was 3/8 of 1195/8 to, 70
79 3/4 was 1/2 of 70 to 893

When it broke under 79 it declined fast.

1932 July 8 Low 403 ss
Final Low - End of Great sie Market
Down to Lows of 1898.

1932 Sept. 8 High 81} was 1/2 of 119 6/8 to 40}
; under 3/8 of 386. to 40%
1/8 of 1574 to 4
; 61 was 1/2 of 4C€ to 81
1933 Feb. 27 Low - 4 was 3/4 of 40 to 81
1933 Mar. 18 High 64 was 1/2 of ir to 8i¢
1933 Apr. 1 Last Low 54 3/4 not 3 points under
1/2 of 40% to 64¢
A rapid advance followed, .. i
crossed — - 1/2 of 49% to 81}
and 1/2 of 40% to 81¢
1933 July 17 High 110} was 3/8 of 296 3/4
just under 5/8 of 146} ne 404

Why did prices of the Dow Jones 30 Industrial Averages make High at. 1104
and 1114 in 1933 and 1934? :

The highest selling point in 1929 was 386. 1/3 of this is 128 5/8.
1/4 of 386 is 96}. The half-way point between 1/3 and 1/4 points
is 1124. This is one of the reasons that so many. tops were made

around this level for such a long period of time before they were
crossed, :

ae ay ee oe

Se SS Se = eee eee eS Ol

4]

RESISTANCE LEVELS, Cont'd

DOW JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

COMPARATIVE BOTTOMS AND TOPS

Why 82} Low, October, 19337.

In September 1938, the old Top 81. From the low of 49} to 111}, the
half-way point is 80%. From the breakaway point 55$ to 1114 the ‘half-
way point is 83%, The fact that the averages held above the extreme

half-way point was a sign of strength and good support. From 111} to
824, tho half-way point was 97.

In March, 1935, the averages started up from 954, not 3 points under
this half-way point and on March 31, 1939, the averages declined to. 974

which was also the half-way point of the highest selling point 195$ in
1937.

1933 Oot. 21 Low 62} was above 1/2 of 49% to 110}
‘and 1/8 of 386 to 4
_ and’ ‘1/2 of 54 3/4 to ll
Holding e above these important 1/2 points, indi-
cated strong support.

‘

1934 Feb. 5 High 111
z Low 824 to 111} made 97 the 1/2 point.
1934 Mer» 1 Low .97°  raldied to 107
1934 July 26 Low 84% was 3/8 of 157} to 40%
From 11]
To St the 1/2 Benes was 98
1935 Feb. 18 High 108}
1935 Mar. 18 Low 953 just under 1/2 of eft ‘to 1114
: and 1/2 of 19
: and 174 of” 386°
From - 108
To 95g ~the 1/2 was’ 10x 3/4

Crossed this minor. 1/2 point and. crossed Old
Tops 110} to. 1114 and Big. Bull Market followed.

1936 Apr. 6 High 163 was 3/8 of 28h . to 386
‘was 3/8.of 386. to 49%
1936 Apr. 30 Low 141% was 7/8 of 40% to 1574
Just 3 points under 1/2 of 1764 ‘to 163¢
1937 Mar. 10 High 195% Same as Low Nov. 13, 1929 and

Last High Oot, 1930. Ld.
Just under High of Feb: 1931. . This was. not
3 points above 193, the 1/2 of 386. and a
sure place to go Short.

1937 June 17 Low 163 " was 3/8 of 28} to 386
was 1/2 of 1414 to 1954
RESISTANCE LEVELS, Cont'd

DOW JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL: AVERAGES

COMPARATIVE BOTTOMS AND TOPS

42

1937

1929
1929

1937
1938

1938

Final Bottom of Pania

1938

1938

1938
1938

1938

Aug.

Oct.
Oct.

Nov.
Jan.

Mar.

Apr,

May

July

14

19
29

23
15

31

is

27

25

Bept. 26

Nov.

10

High 1903 just 24 points under

1/2 of 386 and a.lower Top-

a sign of weakness,

The 1/2 point from 163 to 195 was 179% and
163 to 190} was 176 3/4. When these levels

were broken a panicky decline followed.

Low il was 1/2 of 195}
High 141 was 2/3 of 195$
and under 8/8 of 386
Low 1125 was 3/8 of 196 3/4
High 134} _ was 3/8 of 40%
and 3/8 of 95}
Low 97 g ‘
97 was 1/2 of 195¢

and 3/8 of 404

and 1/3 of 296 3/4

and 1/4 of 386.
This was @ safe buying point,-

High 1214 just above 1/2 of 40}
and 2/3 of 1574
and 5/8 of 195}
Low 106%. just above.1/4-of 40
and 1/8 of 196
109% was 1/2 from 974

to
to

to
to

to

to

to
to
to

40%
40

296 3/4
195}

195%

195}
140}

288 3/4
97.
121

When it crossed 110 showed mteons up and advanced

fast.

High . 146}

was 1/2 of 1983
Low 128

was 1/3 of 386
‘and 1/3 of 195%
and 1/2 of 106

to

to

to

A Strong Support: Level and Buying Point.

High 1583/4 |
When the sia iain crossed 146%

1/2 of Q7t
indicated the 5/8 point - at 158 3/4.
158 3/4 was 5/8 of 97 ;
and 1/3 of 4(

and 3/4 of 19
Making this a sure point to Sell Shirt.

to

to
to
ges

97h

 O7h
1464

195$

1954
386

40%

| | oa
Ce epee unaced
RESISTANCE LEVELS, Oont'd

DOW JONES 3O INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

COMPARATIVE BOTTOMS AND TOPS

1939 Nov. 28 Low 145 was 1/2 of 195% to 97}
and 3/4 of 195}
1/2 of 128 to 158 3/4
3/8 of 97% to 158 3/4
and 5/8 of 40% to 1954

1939 Mar. 10 High 152} was 7/8 of 97%. to 158 3/4
Last Low 136 1/8
to 158 3/4 the 1/2 was 1484
and 1/3 of 136 1/8 to 152%
wes 144 7
When broke this 1/2 point deolined ‘fast.

1939 Apr. 11 Low 120 " was 3/8 of 97} to 158 3/4
and 3/4 of 158 3/4
Note 118 was 1/2 of 40% to 195}
This was the strongest 1/2 point and the averages
held 2 points above, also 118} was

1/4 of 28 - to 386

1939 May 10 High 134 6/8 was 3/8 of 158 3/4 ~— to 120

a s also 3/8 of 195} to 97}

1939 May’ 17 | Low 128 3/8 was 1/2 of 97} to 158 3/4

1939 June 9 High 140 3/4 was 1/2 of 120 to 158 3/4

1939 June 30 Low 129 was 1/2 of 97% to Tae 3/4
and 1/3 of 386

The Market rallied and crossed 139 3/8
the 1/2 of 120 to 158.3/4

and on July 25th advanced to 145 3/4 just
under 1/2 of 97% to 195}

and 2/3 of 120 to 158 3/4

i A strong support point and’ buying level.

43
$10 1"

RESISTANOE LEVELS, Cont'd

DOW JONES 20 RAILROAD AVERAGES

Aug.: © 8, "1896 ....sceeeeeeee- Low 42 WHY?
46 ‘was 1/2 of 92, the lest high
494 was 1/2 of 99, the extreme high

Apr, 1897 Low of reaction 48% was 1/2 of 544 to 42

Sept. LBO7 cesseccccsccsceeHigh 67h was 1/2 of 42 to 92

Nov. VO97 <cisciiescuene Dow 67% was 1/2 of 484 to 67%

Apr. er Low 6583/4 was 1/2 of 42 to 67$

Aug. T6968) wacemaewewwaces High 70% was 1/2 of 42° to 99

Oot. 1898 teseeeeseeneees Low 65 3/4 was an of 42 to 92 close

Jan. 19, 1906.

Apr. 1899 -..ecccseces eee High 87 ~ -was 7/8 of 99 .
and 2/3 of 42° to 99
June 1800 <s0ssessvscncen Dom PF “was 1/2 of 66 to 87
Deo. 1960 ssccaaccssnence BOR 72 : ~ He:
just above - 1/2 42 to 99
: : ~ and om of es to 87
(Note triple bottom near this level) .

JU0M apecisavsseuesinesies Bon 7S

After averages epontsa 70k. the 1/2 of 42 to 99 never sold lower and advanoed to 138 im |
Oot, seeeesegevserereceesesess LOW 73 G/4 L

(Note)  uwenmeedeseeee heuvesseas? 79 3/74 was 1/2 87 to 724
: and 80% was 1/2 of 62 to 99 and in
’ Nov. 1899-the breakaway came when averages crossed 80} after maling triple

bottoms above the 1/2 of 42 to 99, - later crossed 99, the old top advancing quickly L
to 117 3/4 May, 1901 and on Sept. 30, 1902 made high at 129%.

and 1/4 of 56 to 117 3/4
and 1/3 of 724 to 117 374
(Note) w.scececceges neis-eiwieisiaaie aes. 1064 was 1/4 of 724 to 117 3/4
and on secondary reaction after double top, the market made 3 bottoms: 105, 105t, 1064,
starting up from 106} and advancing to new highs.

Mey Gi 190] caccaccaccccies Low BORE was 1/8 of 42 to 117 3/4 L

Sept. 10, LO0R-senesxsesressee High 1294
Dec. YOOS sscesis sveccrscnw Low TUS}

; just above 3/4 of 56 to 1294
Jan. 1608 seswsqecsscnane HEH 121% “at 1/2 of 110%. to 129%

(Note) 1014 was 1/2 of 724 to 129%, broke this level and rallied 2 points sel ese ‘fiead*
broke under and deolined further.

Oct. 1808 scnaneeseann nex Low 89 3/8 at 1/2 of 48% to 1294
Jan. TEOA pyesenscenesane High 99 3/4 at 1/4 of 129% to 89 3/8
and under 1/2 of 72k to 1294
Aug. . 1904 crossed old top and crossed 1/4 of 1294 to 89° (3/8, then came the

breakaway and rapid advance to new highs.
Later crossed 1/2 point 1294 to 89 3/8

ae ee ee ee on

44
#11.

RESISTANOER LEVELS, Jont'd

DOW JONES 20 RAILROAD AVERAGES

Mar.&Apr.- 1905 made double tops et 127 :
July IGOM ccxicccuscvusce Low 114k ak Seer 89 3/8 to 1294, later crossed

121 above 1/2 of 1144 to 127 advanced to
138 3/8 Jan.19, 1906.

Mey 1906 soncseeeweawacn Low 120$ (This was first sharp reaction).
venus danenqaeueyqusseusecuccenceusy gn gowsawisle BPE GF 89 3/8 to 129$
"= Last Low 1144 COveceoeerzesrqreeses 7 ve to 138 3/8, . the 1/2

POUNG. oeceecccccseccrcescccsasees 12 _ and 1/2 of 138 3/8 to 120} was 129.
The first rally was to............ 131

Then secondary reaction..........- 121. B/4
Then GTOBECd er eeserecvverececceecs 129
And. advanced. t0.++-seseeeeeereeees 157 3/4, making triple tops.

Showed down when they broke the ..... nioeeeae ees 1/2 of 1204 to 138 3/8 and was
still weaker when they broke ...........-.. verses 1/2 of 98 3/8 to 158 3/8.

Mar. 14, 1907............+- Low 98 3/8 at 3/8 of 188 3/8 to .72%
and 1/2 of 86 to 138 3/8
May 1907 «20ea.ewnawaces High 110 3/8 at 1/4 of 98 3/8 to 138 3/8
"and 2/3 of 656 to 138 3/8

ee re Fe eke re ee
When they broke this level, they declined to new lows.

Nov. 23, 1907 COCO Cae ee Low 86] 3/8 at 3/8 of 484 to 138 3/8
Jan. 1908 ............-High 95 3/4 -at 1/2 of 81 3/8 to 110 3/8.and later
@ secondary reaction to....... 864 =
Just under 1/2 of 81 3/8 to 95 8/4. Later

[ crossed top Bt....ecccsecssees 95 3/4 and 1/4 of 138 3/8 to 81 3/8.

Sept. IQOE -csiecenscseeesiigh TIGL at 1/2 of 138 3/8 to 81 3/8

‘Sept. 22, 1908 reacted to 103 3/8 the 1/2 of 98 to 110 3/8
Jan. 1909 .............High 1203/4 at 2/3 of 138 3/8 to 81 3/8
Mar. 1909 .............Low 113 3/4 above 1/2 of 103 3/8 to 120 3/4
Aug, 14, 1909 ............-High 134}

Eigbehsaasacesenansncers = 1... 131. was 1/8 of 138 3/8 to 81 3/8
Last move up 113 3/4 to 134}

_ the 1/2 at 124,
When the averages broke this level they never sold’ above....cesees 125 3/4
Untz Geolined: bo: s<ceseccsws vsdes cue se EGE MS ANSE Ca ewicgesy secs, LOD 5/8

On July 26, 1910. This Low was just under 1/8 of 81 3/8 to 1344

Oot. IUD ci peeceesanes ete 118 3/8 the 1/2 of 105 5/8 to 118 3/8 was 112
Dec. AGUS aisisersiciee -Low 111% oy
good support @ 1/2 point an
July 1ST). cs cxendexeens Bigh 14 at 2/3 of 105 5/8 to 154}
URI6 oat Gr a aloha 66/015 UR ay aite SIGUE OLS WS SES sain GSS ere 3/4 of 81 3/8 to 134 3/8 at 121

ANG oc6 sae nw ens * OM WeAS RRS ERE Dae eR eo 1/2 of 105 5/8 to 1342 at 120
When this level was 2 becker: sharp decline followed.

46

RESISTANCE LEVELS, Jont'd

DOW JONES 20 RAILROAD AVERAGES

Sopt. 25, 1911 .....-...---. Low 109 3/4 at 3/8 of 105 5/8 to 124

Notelsccessvssersseenaxcenensaee LIT was 1/2 of 124 to 109 3/4.
_ Averages advanced t0....+eeeeeees 119 ~

Redoted to.csccccseccevcccccesees P15 a.
Then crossed the 1/2 at 117 and went higher.

Oot, 1912......6...++--High 124 5/8 at 2/3 of 105 5/8 to 134%
(NOES): eo nicies sig etees sewed sare anw LL? was 1/2 of 109 3/4 to 124 5/8

When averages broke this level never rallied above.,-- .-118 |

June WIS ecccsessases Low 1005 at 3/8 of 81 3/8 to 134%.
Sept. 1913 :

and

Jan. OMA) cc nis wine ern eare-ace High 1094 at 3/8 of 105 5/8 to 124 5/8
ale qlatebatehiniene si0G jis eeieeeeeseeONd WidOr <ciccsc .. 1/2 of 124 5/8 to. 100%

Later broke under...... seonscnn “1UG the 1/2 of 100% to 1094 -
and declined with very small rallies. ‘

July 30, 1914 .......-.-05- Low 89%
(Note) From 1896 .sseececesee bow 42
to
Jan. 19, 1906 ceeeeeeeeess High 138 3/8 the 1/2 was 901/8
and on July 30, 1914 the averages closed under the 1/2 point from exteeme low to the ex-
treme high, closing; in a@ panic under this strongest point indicated lower prices aaa |

When Exchange opened in December 1914, the 20 RAILROAD AVERAGES declined to 87}.

L
L
L
=a SE Se eS eS me SE PS Ss ee

~~ |
~

CHAPTER 4

VOLUME OF SALES

“Pruch of the Stock. Tape” ¥V 2 iy. MD AE NCAIM
“Wall Street Stock Selector”
"New Stuck ‘Trend Detector”

New Orleans Couon Exchange
Statistician and Economist Commodity Exchange, Tne. N.¥

. ie Waren eae Amerleun Keonoinle Aas!
82 WALL STRELT Regal Ecsnnes ray
NEW YORK, N. Y.

2101 N. W.'18th TERRACE
MIAMI. FLA.

VOLUME OF SALES

After considering the three important factors ... FORMATIONS, TIME, and

RESISTANCE LEVELS ... the fourth and next very important factor is the VOLUME OF
SALES AT TOPS AND BOTTOMS. :

The VOLUME OF SALES is the real driving power behind the market and shows
whether Supply or Demand is increasing or decreas ing. Large buying or selling
orders from professional traders; the public or any other source of supply and
demand, are bound to be registered on the tape and shown in the volume of sales.

Therefore, a careful study of the VOLUME OF SALES will enable you to deter-
mine very closely a change in trend, especially if you apply all of the other

rules for judging position according to the Formations, Resistance Levels end
Time.

Bus FOR DETERMINING CULMINATIONS BY VOLUME OF SALES

> At the end of any prolonged Bull Campaign or rapid advance in an individual
stock, there is usually a large increase in the volume of sales, witigh marks
the end of the campaign, at least temporarily. Then, after a sharp decline
on heavy volume of sales, when a secondary rally takes place and the volume

of sales decreases, it is an indication that the stock has made final top
end that the main trend will turn down.

2 - If the stock holds after making e second lower top and gets dull and narrow

for some time, working in a sideways movement, and then breaks out on in-
creased volume, it is a sign of a furthor decline.

After a prolonged decline of several weeks, several months, or several years,
at the time a stock is reaching bottom, the volume of trading should decrease
| and the range in fluctuation should narrow down. This is one of the sure

= Signs that liquidation is running its course and that the stock is getting
ready to show a change in trend. :

4 - After the first sharp advance (when tho trend is ‘changing from a Bear Market
to a Bull Market) the stock will have a secondary reaction and make bottom,
just the same as it hod a secondary really after the first sharp decline. If
the volume of sales decreases on the reaction and then-the stock moves up, ad—

as vancing on hoavior volume, it will be an indication ofan advance to higher
levels.

These rules ‘apply: to the general market, that is, to the total sales traded

in on the New York Stock Exchange——daily, weekly or monthly——as well as to in-
dividual stocks,
SUMMARY : SALES INCREASE NEAK THE TOP. AND DECREASE NEAR THE BOTTOM, oxcopt in
abnormal markets, like October, and November, 1929 when tho morkot
was moving down very fast and culminated on large volumo of salos
making a sharp bottom, from which a swift rebound followed. As a.
rule, after the first sharp rally, there is a secondary decline on
decreased volume, as described above under Rule 4.

MONTHLY RECORD OF VOLUMES OF SALES
ON NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
1930 ~— 1935

To understand the importance of Volume, a study of the total number of
shares traded in on the New York Stock Exchange is necessary.

1930
JUNE Seales were 80,000,000 SHES s with the market moving lower.

JULY & On a small rally the total sales were only 80,000,000 shares for two
AUGUST months.

SEPTEMBER The market was slightly higher early in the month; then a decline

started, which carried prices to new low levels, sales of 50,000,000
shares being recorded. :

OCTOBER Tho market broko to new low levels. Stocks at this time broke the low
. levgls of November, 1929 ond sales increased to 70,000,000 shares.

DECEMBER ‘The Dow—Jones Industrial Averages declined 46 points under tho low

levels of November, 1929. ‘Total salos this month were 60 2008, 000
shares.

Lo 3 2

JANUARY A rally started and in January, 1931 the sales were 42,000,000 sharos.

FEBRUARY The market made top of the rally on sales of 64,000,000 shares, which
showed that the volume of trading was increasing on the rally and that
stocks were meeting resistance. Note that this top was just under

tho low levels of Novembor, 1929, which showed that stocks mot selling
when they moved up under the old low levels of the panic.

MARCH A decline started in. March and the sales were 64,000,000 shares, a4
heavier volume, with prices moving lower,

APRIL Sales were 54,000,000 shares,

MAY Salos 47,000,000.

JUNE There was a sharp decline on a volume of salew totaling 59,000,000,

which carried tho Avorages down to now low levels, reaching 120, the
old top of 1919 and the last low of May, 1925. A quick rall followed
to the end of June and early July, the Averages reaching 1577, but
failing to cross the high level mado in Mey, 1931,

49

of
i
l
Ll
l
ol
L
L
L
L
L
L

Ll .

J
J
J
V-3
JULY Tha sales wore smaller, only 33,000,000, ond tho market narrowod down.
AUGUST The sales wore 24,000,000, still a narrow, dull market, not making

much progross on.the upside.

SEPTEMBER Aotivity sturtod ond salos roachod 61,000,000. On this incronsod
volume the Averages declined 45 points during the month of Scptember.
This showed great wealmoss and indicated a further doclince.

OCTOBER A sharp decline occurrod which carried the Averages down to 85 on
sales of 48,000,000 shares,

NOVEMBER <A rally followod, culminating on Novembor Sth. Tho averages reached
1192, back to’ the old-top of 1919, to the last low of 1925, and to
the bottom of a previous rally. Failing to penotrato those old bottoms
end cross the previous top, the markot showod woakmess and indicated
that tho trond was still dowm. Salos in November were 37,000,000,
the volume decreasing on the rally.

DECEMBER The Averagos doclined.to a now low for the move, making 72 on sales
: of 50,000,000. shares, the largest. since Septomber, 1931. This indi-
catod that big liquidation was still going on.

1932

JANUARY Tho Avorages reached a low of 70 on sales of 44,000,000 shares for the

month,
%

.

FEBRUARY Ralliod to 89% on sales of 31,000,000 sharos.

MARCH Tho Averages mado about the same high on salos of 33,000 , OO shares,
Thon the markot wont dead on the rally, stocks narrowing dovm,

APRIL Tho Dow-Jonos 30 Industrial Averagos broke 70, the low of Jenuary;
end declined to 55 on sales of 30,000,000 shares.

= MAY The Averages broke 53, the old low levels of the panic of 1907 and 1914,
which indicated lower prices; then declined to 45 on sales of
23,000,000 sheres.

JUNE The range between extreme high and extreme low averaged 10 points and
the averages reached a new low on sales of 23,000,000 shares.

JULY On July 8, 1932, the extreme low was reached, with the Averages down
to 403. The volume was very small and the Averages and individual
stocks moved in a very narrow trading range, indiceting the last stages
of a bear market, Late in the month the Averages crossed. the high of”
June, Which indicated that the trend was turning up. Sales were
23,000,000 shares. The range was about 13 points on Averages.

ae At the: low in July the Averages were down 345 points from 1929

high. Tho volume of sales for the three months—May, June and July—

aggregated only 69,000,000 shares, the smallest since 1923, in con-
trast to over 100 ,000 ,000 shares per month at the top in September,

1929 and 141,000,000 in the month of October, 1929. This indicated

that after such a drastic decline, liquidation had run its course and

the trend was changing. ‘The market really had been sold to a stand-

AUGUST

SEPTEMBER

OCTOBER

NOVEMBER

DECEMBER

JANUARY

FEBRUARY

MARCH

APRIL

JUNE

51

V4

still. Traders and invostors: sold out overything becauso they foarod
things were going to get worse. . It was tho same old story: A bull
market begins in gloom and ends in glory. All.of the indications were
plain: The small volume of sales and narrow range of fluctuations
inditated that the end had boon reached and that a, change in trend was
certain.

During the letter part of July, 1932, the advance started.

There was a sharp rally in August on sales of 83,000,000 shares, more

then for the entire three months past. This was on short covering and
wise investment buying.

Top of the rally was reached on sales of 67,000,000 shares, with the
Averages up 40 points from the low of July 8. After this advance to
September on a large volume, distribution took place and the trend
turned down. (Note that the total volume from July 8 to the top in
September was 168 million shares.) The Averages failed to go higher in
the third month. At no time:from April, 1930 to July, 1932 had the
Averages or most of the individual stocks rallied over two months.

Therefore, to show a change in trend to a prolonged bull market, they
would have to advance three full months or more.

After September stocks worked slowly down on a smaller volume of sales.
In October the sales were 29,000,000.

Sales were 23,000,000.

Sales’ 23,000,000.

i938

Sales were 19,000,000 shares.

The whole country was in a state of panic. Banks were failing right
and left. People were panic stricken and selling stocks and bonds re-
gardless of price. There were business failures, and when President
Roosevelt was inaugurated on March 1, he immediately acted and closed
all the banks in the United States. This marked the end of the second-
ary decline and started a constructive movement,

The Dow-Jones Industrial Averages declined to 50 in February,
which was 9 points higher than the low of: July, 1932. Sales were only
19,000,000 shares, the smallest volume of any time in over 10 years

end the smallest volume for any month since the top in September, 1929,
a sure sign of bottom.

A rally started on increased'sales. The volumo was 20,000,000 sharos.

The United States went off the gold standard. .This started a rapid ad-

vence in stocks and commodities. Sales on the New York Stock Exchange
were 53,000,000 shares this month.

The advance continued and the volume of trading reached 104,000,000
shares.

The volume increased to 125,000,000.

ee ee Ljines ares eK eK eS eS ee Le =

JULY

AUGUST &
SEPTEMBER

OCTOBER

NOVEMBER

DECEMBER

J ANU ARY

FEBRUARY

MARCH

APRIL

ayes

V-5

The sales were 120,000,000 sales.

From March low to July high, 1933,the total number of shares
traded in on the Now York Stock Exchango was 422,000,000 shares and
the Averages at the top in July were up 60 points from the low of
February, 1933. Very few people keep-records and study enough to
understand whet the enormous volume of 422,000,000 shares meant. This
was tho greatest volume of sales of any bull campaign in the history
of the New York Stock Exchange. It was greater than the last advance
in 1929. (From the last low in May, 1929 to Septombor, 1929, the
Averages advanced 96 points and the total sales on the New York Stock
Exchange were 350,000,000 shares.) It was one of the wildost buying
waves in history. Commodities advencod by leaps and bounds. People
bought stocks regardless of price. Just think about it: Sales of
350,000,000 in three months—May, June, and July, 1933—eaqual to the
volume from May, 1929 to September, 1929. The signs were plain that
volume was telling the story of a wave of inflation. Commodities. and
stocks had advenced so rapidly and everybody had bought on such thin
margin that a wide-open break occurred in four days from July 18th to
21st, carrying the Dow-Jones Averages dowm 25 points to 85. Cotton
and Wheat broke badly at the same time on heavy liquidation. At this
time Dr. E. A. Crawford failed. He was involved in commodities, said
to be the largest amount carried ever known.

After tho sharp’ doclino in July, a rally followed in August and Septem—
ber, which carried the Averages to within two points of the July high,
making a double top. The volume of sales on this second rally was
smaller. In August the sales were 42,000,000 and in September 43,000,000

shares. In these two months the volume was only two-thirds of tho total
volume for July, 1933.

The Dow—Jones 50 Industrial Averages declined to 82%, the last low be-
fore the start of a long advance. Sales decreased to 39,000,000 and
the market became very dull and narrow, A slow rally started from the

‘October lows.

Sales were 33,000,000 shares.

Sales 35,000,000.

1934

The sales this month were 54,000,000.

Sales 57,000,000 shares, with the top in February only slightly above
the high of January. The Averages failed to get over one point above
the high of July, 1933, making a double top. Sales of 111,000,000 is
shores in two months and the third time at the same: level was a signal ~
of top. Individual stocks especially showed plainly by the large

volume and the slow progress they were making in February that they

were getting ready to start dovm. The’ trend turned dovm in the latter
part of February.

Sales reached 30,000,000 shares.

There was a slight relly on 29,000,000 shares.

JUNE

JULY

AUGUST

SEPTEMBER

OCTOBER

NOVEMBER

DECEMBER

JANUARY

FEBRUARY

MARCH
APRIL

MAY

JUNE

JULY

AUGUST

Prices were cities) on 25,000,000 sales.

There was @ ee rally end the volume decreasod to 16,000,000 shares |
for the month. .

On July 26, 1944, stocks made bottom on sales of nearly 3,000,000 sharos
for the day, with.the Dow-Jones Averages down to 85, slightly above the
low level of October, 1933.

For the month of July, 1934 total sales were only 21,000,000 shares
Individual stocks moved in a narrow trading range, which atte’ that
bottom was being made and the fomdaetion laid for another bull compeign.
The fact that an extreme high was reached in July, 1933 was an indica-

_tion that you should watch for a change in trend in July, 1934, accord-

ing to my rules to watch for a change in trend one year, two years, or
three years from any important top and bottom.

The market rallied 11 points on averages on sales of 16,000,000 shares.

The market reacted within one point of the July low. Sales were down
to 12,000,000 shares, a sure sign of bottom, being the smallest sales
per month in oy years.

The market rallied in October on a slightly increased volume of sales,
15,000,000 shares.

Priges were higher on sales of 23,000,000 shares for the month.

2933 5

—
There was increased activity on sales of 19,000,000 shares. =

The market reached the top of the rally. Sales only 14,000,000 shares,

which was a sign-that there was not enough buying power to carry
prices thru.

The sales increased to 21,000,000 shares. ‘ L
There was a big decline, which was the last before the market advanced

to new highs. Sales were 16,000,000 shares. L
Increased activity shown and stocks started advancing. Volume of sales -
was 22,000,000 shares, which showed that a bull market was under way. |

The Dow-Jones 30 Industrial Averages crossed the high levels of 193% =
and the top of February, 1934, on sales of 30,000,000 shares. Indi- |

vidual stocks showed increased sales and meny of them moved up to now
high levels.

The Averages crossed 120, which was above the: last high of November 9, J

1931, oa sure indication of higher prices. Tho’ salos for June were -
22,000,000 shares. . -

New highs were reached for individual stocks. and the-Averages. Sales J
for the month were 29,000,000 shares. S

More new highs for individual stocks and new highs for the Industrial J

J
— a e
~<a! — Lear

|

Mn
>

Averages. Sales reached 45,000,000 shares, the highest since January
and February, 1934.

SEPTEMBER The advance continued and-sales were 35,000,000 shares.

OCTOBER The Dow-Jones 30 Industrial averages advanced to 142. The total sales
for the month were 46,000,000 shares. During the week ending October
26, sales on the, New York Stock Exchange were 14,000,000 shares, the
largest for any week since September, 1934, which was an indication

that you should begin to watch for top in stocks that had had big ad-
VANCES.

NOVEMBER During the week ended November 2 the sales were 11,000,000 shares and
during the week ended November 9 ... a 5-day week ... the sales were
12,000,000 shares. On November 8 tho sales were 3,350,000, the larg-
est for any day since the bottom of July 26, 1934.

JULY, 1934 to NOVEMBER, 1935

The total sales from the low of July 26, 1934 to the high of November 8, _
1935 were 383,000,000 shares. The total number of points which the Dow-Jones
Industriel averages advanced from July, 1934 to November 8, 1935 was 61 points.
Note that the total advance from the low of March, 1933 to the top in July, 1933
was 60 points. Therefore, with the averages in November, 1935 up 61 points, as

much as in the 1933 campaign, it was time to watch for et least a temporary
change in trend.

Note that the volume of sales during this 15-months! campaign from July,
1954 to November, 1935 was about 39,000,000 shares less than the 5 months! cam-
paign from.Merch, 1933 to July, 1933. This shows that since the Securities Ad-
ministration has been operating, it has reduced trading considerably.

DECEMBER Volume of sales 57,462,000 shares and a 10-point reaction occurred,
Q normal reaction in o Bull Market.

LARGEST VOLUME OF SALES BEFORE FINAL TOP

By going over the records you will find that the largest volume of sales
often comes before final top is reached; that when the actual high is made, the
volume of sales is smaller than in previous months, weeks or days. This is due
to the fact that the public often loads up heavily, buying all they can carry,

when the market gets very active; then as the market nears top, their demand
having been supplied, they buy less, Example:

23

los

=

JANUARY Sales 67,500,000, the largost since the low was reached in July, 1934.

FEBRUARY Salos 60,884,000.
MARCH Sales 51,000,000.

APRIL High was reachod on April 6 for a reaction. A sharp decline followcd.
Low April 30, with the Dow-Jones 30 Industrial averages down 21 points.
Seales for the month, 39,610,000. The volume on this reaction was
smaller than for many months past. You will see that the largest

_. volume came in January before the reaction in April, the public having
loaded up on the January rise.

az2uot .
JANUARY Sales 58,671,000, the largest sinoe January, 1956 ... a signal to [
watch for a change in trend in the near future.

FEBRUARY Sales 50,248,000. : |

MARCH Dow-Jones averages reached final high at 1953 on March 8. Sales for
the month were 50,346,000. and the averages broke back 15 points be-.
fore the end of the month. This again proves that the public loaded
up on stocks in January, as the volume was less in February and when

top wes reached in March, the public was wable to buy in large
volume.

From July 26, 1934 to October 31, 1936, the totel volume was 866,988,000
shares and the market had advanced 94 points onthe Dow-Jones averages. This
was an average of 88,860 shares per point. From October 31, 1936 to March 8,
1937, when final high was reached, the total volume was 258,392,000 shares and
the market had advanced 17 points. This was an average of 151,197 shares per
point, showing that the market was meeting with almost twice as many shares per L
point as it did up to October 31, 1936, This increased volume on a smaller gain
was an indication that the market was nearing top. The total sales in the en-
tire Bull Campaign from July 26, 1934 to March 8, 1937 was 1,125,380,000 shares
or about one-third of the total shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

JULY, 1934 to MARCH, 1937 [

188 7 . |
After the high in March, 1937, the volume decreased an the decline.
MAY’ Sales 18,562,000. L
JUNE Sales 16,457,000. Low was reached on; June 17 with the averages. down
r 32 points. This decreasing volume indicated that a secadary rally
wos dues
JULY Sales 20,721,000. L
AUGUST High of secondary rally. Dow-Jones averages reached 1903, up 273 i
points. Sales 17,212,000. This will prove that on the secondary L

rally to within 5 points of the old top the wlume was not more than
one-third the sales at the first top in March, 1937 ... a sure indi-

cation of decreasing demand and a signal to sell the market short. J

SEPTEMBER Sharp decline followed. Sales 33,854,000 shares, almost double the
volume in August. ;

L_!

OCTOBER Panicky decline. Sales 51,250,000.

‘

(a

NOVEMBER Further decline to lower levels, but the volime decreased. Sales,
21,250,000. it

193 8

JANUARY There was a rally to January; then decline was resumed. Sales for

the month, 24,151,000. This was light volume on the rally, showing
that there wes not enough buying to turn the trend up.

—

55
Pe Pe se Se EE SE SS. Se le

I | | | |

na
fons

FEBRUARY Sales 14,522 ,000.

MARCH Sales 25,995,000. ‘This was light volume, considering the fact that
the everages declined over 25 points. Final low reached March 21.

MARCH 1937 to MARCH, 1938

From March 10, 1937 to March 31, 1938 the averages declined 98 points. The
total volume of sales was 346,192,000 or an averages of 35,325 shares per point,
showing a much smaller volume on the decline than when the market advanced in

the previous Bull Campaign and more proof of the thin markets due to Securities
Exchange regulations.

i338
APRIL - Sales 17,119,000. This was on a 20-point rally in the avereges.
MAY Sales 14,000,000, very small volume on a secondary reaction. The

market became very dull and narrow at the bottom when the averages
declined to around 1063. This was the same kind of a signal on a
secondary reaction that the market was making bottom for an advance
as the signal which came in August,.1937, on the secondary rally when
the market was making top and getting ready for a big decline.

JUNE Sales increased to 24,668,000.

JULY A further great increase to 38,880,000. ; <

AUGUST : Seles 20,788,000. The market made top in July and August; then re-
acted.

SEPTEMBER Sales 23,876,000. Low of reaction. .The fact that the vougme in-

creased on this reaction in September indicated that there was good
buying.

OCTOBER Heavy buying and a great increase in volume this month. Sales wore
41,558,000.

NOVEMBER Sales 27,922,000. November 10, final high; Dow-Jones 30 Industrial
averages reached 1588. Tho market made a very small gain over the
high in October, when there was such large volume. During the first
10 days of November the total volume was 11,800,000, indicating that

stocks were meeting some heavy selling and tht distribution wos tak-
ing place.

MARCH, 1938 to NOVEMBER, 1938

From March 31 to November 10, 1938 the total advance was 61+ points. ‘Total .
volume of sales 192,685,000 or 32,080 shares per point,-a little less than the
same number of shares per point on the decline during 1937 and early 1938.

DECEMBER Sales 27,492,000, just slightly lower than the sales in November, 1938.

|r

£28

JANUARY Sales 25,182,000, just a Little more than the total sales in Jan.1938.

V-10
FEBRUARY The market narrowed down and the volume wes very smill, 13,873,000.

MARCH Sales 24,560,000. A sharp decline followed after March 10.

NOVEMBER; 1938 to APRIL, 1939

From November 10, 1938 to April 11, 1939 the Dow-Jones 50 Industrial
averages declined 38-5/8 points, Total sales 115,232,000 shares. Average
volume per point decline was 30,324 shares; slightly less than on the advance to
November 10, 1958, but the advance was a greater number of points.

APRIL Sales 20,246,000. April 11, lowe _ |

MAY A rally followed this month but the volume was small. Sales emma |

JUNE Top of rally was reached on June 9 and a decline of 20 points followed,
market reaching low June 30. Sales for the month, 11,963,000. This

was @ secondary reaction on smal volume .«.. an indication to buy
stocks.

JULY A rally followed on increased volume. Sales in July, 18,067,000.

APRIL to JULY, 1939

From April 11, 1939 to July 31, 1839 the averages advanced 252 points. L
Total sales were 55,211,000 sharese Average sales per point, 21, 234 shares,
indicating a thin market, the markét being able to advance on a much smaller -
number of shares than on its decline from November 10, 1938 to April 11, 1939. L

If you continue to study the Volume of Sales on the New York Stow Exchange
and watch the position of the Dow-Jones Industrial Averages on Formations and

at Resistance Levels, you will be able to determine culminations with greater
accuracy.

A STUDY OF WEEKLY VOLUME

CHRYSLER MOTORS 1928-35

!

A study of each individual stock, noting its decrease or increase in Volume
and the points at which it narrows down into a slow trading range with small a
volume and then the other extreme when it advarices on large volume and. makes a.

rapid advance, will enable you to determine when tops = bottoms - are hard made «.
For example: CHRYSLER MOTORS

eS

On January 21, 1928 Chrysler made low at 543 June 2, high 883. Then fol-

lowed a decline to June 23, making low at 63-5/8. "down 25 points in three weeks ,
on a _volume of sale of 1,012,000 shares.

J
J
J
od

BY
58

Yhon followed the final grond-rush lasting 16 woeks. During this timo tha
stock never broko the low of a provious week at ony time from tho bottom at San
to 140%, where it reached high on Octobor 6, up 87 points in 15 weeks, on total
sales of 9,741,800 shares. During the last two wooks of this rapid advance the
sales were 2,768,000.

The total numbor of sharos of Chryslor listod on tho Now York Stock Exchange
is 4,484,000. Thus, you see that on this last great advance the totel capitcaliza-
tion ohanged honds more than twice, and in the last two weeks more than half of
the total outstending stock was traded in, This large volume indicated thot dur-
ing the second advance the stock was making top. During the week ended Octobor 6,
the total sales were 1,741,500. This was tho largest volume of sales for one week
in the history of Chrysler Motors, nearly half of tho total stock outstanding.

The following week the price of the stock was lower. It never rallied ogain
to this top wtil it declined to 5. If you were meking a study of the volume of
sales, you would see the handwriting plain on the wall ond kmow that this wes a
final top, especially after it gave all the other indications of a change in
trend to the downside.

19S29 TO LYS 2

After Chrysler reached high in October, ‘i928 there was @ — = decline to
the week of November 16, 1929, when the ending of the first section of the bear
market was recorded on hverages.« The sales during the period were 22,533,000
sheres, or over 5 times the total stock outstanding.

On the rally from the week of November 16, 1929 to April, 1930, whon the
stock sold at 43, the total number of sales was 3,916,000 on a rally of 17 points.
This volume of gales almost equalled the entire outstanding stock.

From April, 1930 high to the low of 5, which was reached in the woek ended
June 4, 1932, the total number of sales was 14,814,422.

The grand total of sales from the high at 1403 in the week ended October 6,

1928 to the low of 5 in Jwme, 1932 was 41,263,622 shares, Thus, the capital
stock changed honds nearly 10 times in this campaign.

1929-1935

COMPARISON: DECLINE FROM 88 TO 5 AND ADVANCE FROM 5 TO 23%

It is important to roview tho total number of sharos traded in frem tho timo
Chrysler sold at 88 in the week ended May 11, 1929 to the low in the week ended
Juno 4, 1932, whon it declined to 5. This roviow is important because we want to
mako a comparison with tho total salos from the low of 5, roachod in tho wook
ended Juno 4, 1932, to tho timo when Chrysler sold at 88$ ogain in October, 1935,

In the week onded May 11, 1929, Chrysler doclined below 88 and thon failod
to get above this level again wtil it declined to a low of 5 in June, 1952. .
The total number of sales was 25,154,622 on this decline. :

From the extreme low of 5 in the week ended June 4, 1932 to October, 1935,
when the stock advanced to 88 ogain, we find that the total volume of sales was
30,628,200, or S% million giarve more then the total number of shares traded in
on the decline from May, 1929 to June, 1932, covering the same range in price.
v-12

We kmow thet wnder normal conditions the volume is always greater when a stock

is advancing than when. it is declining, because there are more wash sales, pool
operations end manipulation, The fact that Chrysler made this advance on only i
five million shores more than was required to go down tho sumo numbor of points
showed that the operations of the Securities Exchange Commission had reduced

the volume of trading in an advancing market, especially when we consider that |
from the week erlded June 4, 1932 to March, 1933 low there was a period of accumu-
lation, the stook advancing from 5 to ‘22 and then declining to T; again in March,
1933, on a volume of 5,105,000 shares, Therefore, deducting this from the total
sales for the period from June, 1932 to October, 1935, it would bring the volume i
of trading down to 25 million shares on this advance, or near the same number of
shores traded in on the decline of on equal number of points, from 88 to 5. L

21933-1935

From the low of 7% in the week ended March 4, 1933 to the high at 60% in
the week ended February .24, 1934, Chrysler advanced 52% points. Total sales,
15,219,800 shares, over three times the total amount of stock outstanding. Study
this first section of the bull campaign and tho distribution that took place-

then apply the same rules to ony other stoék in order to determine a change in
trend,

RANGE OF DISTRIBUTION: In the week cnded January 6, 1934, Chrysler roachod a

high of 593; then reacted to 50, and rallicd in the woek
of February 3 to 59$; then reached top at 60% in tho wook ondod Fobruary 24, 1934.
Aftor throo weeks it had foilod to gain one point ovor tho high in tho woek of L
February 3 and the first high of 59% in January, which showod that thoro was real
distribution taking ploce ond tho stock was mooting with heavy sclling. Tho dis-
tribution took*placo botwoon 50 and 60%, or in a rango of 10$ points. In this L
range of distribution, there was o total number of 2,776,300 shares traded in,
or ovor half of the total shures outstanding, which indicated thot ofter on ad-
vence of 52 points, the stock was making top for at least a sharp decline. L

SIDEWAYS DISTRIBUTION: It is imteresting to study a sideways distribution. Aftor
a stook turns tho minor trond down; thon rallios and con- L

not reach the old highs again, distribution often takos placc on the side, which
we call a sideways movement. People buy the stock on the roaction because they

think it is cheap and don't know that it is gotting roady to turn the mein trend
down. For example: L

From the weok ondod March 3, 1934 to the wook ondod April 28, 1954, tho prico -
renge for Chrysler was 49d to 56. Total numbor of shares traded in 1,225,800. \.
Adding this to tho distribution at tho top, the total volumo was 4,002,100, or
practically the entiro capital stock tradod in in this 10-point rango of dis-
tribution. Aftor an advanoo of ovor 50 points, when the ontiro capital stock I |
turnod over in a range of 10 points, it cortainly was a sign of a chango in trend. w

It is also intcresting to considor that aftor tho advance of 523 points in”

51 weeks, the stock was noaring tho Timo period of one.yonr’.. One of my rulés is
to always wotch for ao chongo in trend ct tho end of a yoor.

A decline followod in Chrysler after this sideways distribution.
BEAR CAMPAIGN — FEBRUARY TO AUGUST, 1934: From tho high at 602 in the woek ended

February 24, 1934 to the low at 292 in
the weok ondod August 11, 1934, the rengo was 31% points. The total volume of

39
60

V-13

sales was 3,033,900, nearly three-fourths of the capital stock changing hands on
this decline, Compared with the large volume on the advance, this volume on the
decline, which was a secondary reaction, showed that the pressure of sales was
decreasing and that the stock was reaching bottom, at least for a rally. Study
this bottom and the volume of sales per week, Also note that the low of 29} was
practically one-half of 60%, the high point. -—

BULL CAMPAIGN ~ AUGUST, 1934 TO NOVEMBER, 19355: From the low of 29} in the week

ended August 11, 1934 to the
high of 42% reached in February, 1935, the sales were 2,196,500, a smaller volume
on the rally. Then the trend turned dawm again and the stock reached a low of 31
jin the week ended March 16, 1935, making a higher bottom than that of August,
1934, The price was down 114 points from 42% in three weeks on a small volume
of 286,600 shares, which indioated that it was the last decline and that the

stock was getting ready to ohange trend to the upside, especially as it did not
go lower in tho fourth week of the decline,

LONG UPSWING AFTER SECONDARY BOTTOM: From the low of 31 in the wook of
March 16, 1955 to the high of October 25, 1935, when the stock sold ab 88s, making
a total renge of 67% points, tho numbor of sharos tradod in was 5,091,000 shares,

about 3/4 million over the total capital stock outstonding. From tho low of 292

in August, 1934 to tho high of Bisea in October, 1935, the totel rango was 59%

points and the totel sales 7,287,500, tho total number of outstanding shares
changing hands noarly twice.

Tho most importent last long swing to consider was from the low of 7 in
March 1933 to 88% in Octobor, 1935, an advance of 81 points on total sales of

25,523,200 shares, which showod thet the stock tradcain equalled noarly six times
the amount of stock outstanding.

Whon the stook was noar tho low in March, 1935, tho salos por weak wore
around 75,000 sharos to as low as 46,000 sharos por week until April Oe whon
the volumo was 235,000 shares in tho week, Aftor that thoy werc rumning highor
right olong. Thon, boginning the wook of August 31, solos wero as high as

229,000 shares a wook,- 233,000, 254,000, 149,000, 223,000, 209,000, 260,000 in
the wook of October 19, and during the weok ondod October 26, whon Chrysler

roachod 68s, tho salos wore 256,000. Thus, you sco how the volumo of sclos was

incroasing rapidly whon this stock made a sharp advanco to 88S from tho low of
the last reaction around 69, ;
V-14

In determining the extreme high and low points, you will find it will help

you to study the Volume of Sales on eéch individual stock, especially the active
leaders, and follow the rules.

Regulations against specialists, pool operators, and against member os the
New York Stock Exchange trading for their own accounts have cut down the volume

of sales probably as much as 50%. When the Government makes business bad in Wall
Street, it hurts business throughout the nation.

The day will come when these roforms and regulations will cease because
they are doing harm and helping no one. After theso restrictions are taken off,

then the market will show a larger volume of sales per point and there will be a
more normal market,

When once’ again we have a free market and everybody is permitted to trade
who can. put up the money, there will be better business and general prosperity.
Let us all pray that the day of reform and regulations will soon cease as it is
best for all concerned that they should.

August 12, 1939.

safe
ay

61
CHAPTER 5

MASTER TIME FACTOR

&

FORECASTING BY

MATHEMATICAL RULES

Secrentivic Aovice
| ano AmAty tical Rerozrs

ox Stoces avo Commopitizs

avrion oe “Traut oy tae Scocx Tare”

“Ware Stavert Sroce Seurcroa”
aso “Tate Tunxes Taav tee Ata”

Ww. D. GANN
88 WALL STREET
NEW YORK

Mawaxz
American Ecoxomwic Ass x
Rovat Economic Socirty

Cassie Avvaess
“Gaxwanz Naw Yorn”

FORECASTING

ee
sewer r ease

°
.

Every movement in the market is the result of a natural law and a Cause
which exists long before the Effect takes place and can be determined years in
advance. The future is but a repetition of the past, as the Bible plainly states:

"The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and
‘o.» that which is done is that which shall be done, and there
is no new things under the sun." Eccl. 1: 9.

Everything moves in cycles as a result of the natural law of action and

reaction. By a study of the past, I have discovered what cycles repeat in the
future.

-MAJOR TIME CYCLES

There must always be a major and a minor, a greater and a lesser, a positive
end a negative, In order to be acourate in forecasting the future, you must imow

the major oyoles., The most money is made when fast moves and extreme fluctuations
ocour at the end of major cycles.

I have experimented and compared past markets in order to locate the major
and minor cycles and determine what years in tho cycles repeat in the future.

After years of resoarch end practical tests, I have discovered that the following
cycles are the most reliable to use;

GREAT CYCLE = MASTER TIM® PERIOD ~ 60 YEARS;

This is the greatest ond most important cycle of all, whioh repeats every 60 years
or at the end of the third 20-year Cycle. You will soe the importance of this by
referring to the war period from 1861 to 1869 and the panic following 18693 also

60 years later—1921 to 1929—the greatest bull market in history and the greatest

penic in history followed. This proves the accuracy and value of this great time
period, ;

5O-YEAR CYCLE;

A major cycle occurs every 49 to 60 years. A period of “jubileo" years of extrome
high or low prices, lasting fran 5 to 7 years, occurs at the end of the S0-yoar
cycle, "7" is a fatal numbor reforrod to many times in tho Bible. It brings
about contraction, depression and panics. Seven times "7" equals 49, which is
shown as the fatal evil year, causing extreme fluctuations.

F-2
30—YEAR CYCLE:

Tho 30-year cycle is vory important becauso it is one-half of tho 60-yoar cyclo
or Groat Cyclo ond contains threo 10-yoar cycles. In making up on onnunl foro-

cest of a stock, you should always moko a comparison with the record 30 years
back.

20—YEAR CYCLE:

One of the most important Time Cyclos is tho 20-yoar cyclo or 240 months. Most
stocks and the avurages work closor to this cyclo then to ony other. Refer to
anolysis of "20-yoor Forocasting Chart" given lator.

15-YEAR CYCLE;

Fifteen years is three-fourths of a 20-year cyole md most important becauso it
is 180 months or one-half of a circlo.

The next important major cycle is the W-year cycle, which is one-half of the
20-year cycle ond one-sixth of the 60-year cycle. It is also vory important bo-
cause it is 120 months or one-third of a circle. Fluctuations of the same nature

occur which produce extrome high or low every 10 years. Stooks como out remark-
ably close on each even 10-yoar cyclo,

7-YEAR CYCLE;

-This.cycle is 84 months. You should watch 7 yoars from any important top ond bot-
tom. 42 months or one-half of this cycle is very important. You will find mony
culminations around the 42nd month, 21 months or 1/4 of this cycle is also
important. Tho fact that some stocks make top or bottom 10 to 11 months from tho

previous top or bottom is due to tho fact that this period is 1/8 of the 7-year
cyclo.

Thoro is on 84~-yoor Cyclo, which is 12 times the 7~year Cycle, that is vory
importent to wotch, OUno-half of this cyclo is 42 yoars- 1/4 is 21 years, and
1/8 is l0Sycers, This is one of tho reasons for the period of nearly 11 years
between the bottom o1 August, 1921 ond the bottom of July, 1932, A varintion o;
this kind often occurs at the end of o Great Cycle or 60 years. Bottoms ond tops _

often come out on the angle of 135° or oround tho 135th month or llj-yeor period |
from any important top or bottom, \

™
i
1
1
L
L

lene L
L
L
L
L
L
L

5-YEAR CYCLE;

This cycle is very important because it is one-half of the 10-year cycle nnd 1/4 J
of the 20-year cycle. The smallest complete cycle or work-out in a market is

5S yeorse J
MINOR CYCLES;

Tho minor cycles ore 3 years and 6 years, The smallest cycle is one yoar, which |
often shows c change in the 10th or llth month,

J
J

65

F-3
RULES FOR FUTURE CYCLES
Stocks move in 10-year cycles, which creworked out in 5-year cycles — a

5-year cycle up ond a S-year cycle down, Begin with extreme tops ond extreme
bottoms to figure all cyoles, either major or minor.

Rule 1 - A bull compoign generally runs 5 years — 2 years up, 1 year down, ond

Rule

Rule

Rule

Rule

Rule

Rule

Rule

2 yeors up, completing a S-year cycle, The end of a 5-yeer campaign

comes in the S9th or 60th months. Always watch for the change in the
59th month.

A bear cycle often runs 5 years down—the first nove 2 years dovm, thon
1 year up, ond 2 years down, completing the 5-year downsiring.

Bull or bear campaigns seldom run nore then 3 to 34 years up or dow
without a move of 3 to 6 months or one year in the opposite direction,
except at the end of Major Cycles, like 1869 ond 1929, Mony canpceigns
culminate in the 23rd month, not running out the full two yeors. Watch
the weekly ond monthly charts to determine whether the culmination will
occur in the 23rd, 24th, 27th or 30th month of the nove, or in extrome
campaigns in the 34th to 35th or 4lst to 42nd month.

Adding 10 years to ony top, it will givo you top of tho noxt 10-yoar
cycle, ropeating about the same oaverago fluctuatiors,

Adding 10 years to ony bottom, it will give you tho bottom of the noxt

10-year cyclo,repeating the same kind of a year and about the same
average fluctuations,

Bear campaigns often run out in 7-year cycles, or 3 years and 4 years
from any complete bottom, From any complete bottom of a cycle, first
add 3 years to get the next bottom: then add 4 years to that bottom to
get bottom of 7-year cycle, For example: 1914 bottom — add 3 yeers,

gives 1917, low of panic; then add 4 years to 1917, Bives 1921, low of
another depression.

To any final major or minor top, add 3 years to get the next top; then
add 3 years to that top, which will give the third top; add 4 years to
the third top to get the final top of a 10-year cycle, Sometimes a

chenge in trend from any top occurs before the end of the regular time

period, therefore you should begin to watch the 27th, 34th, and 42nd
months for a reversal,

Adding 5 years to any top, it will give the next bottom of a S-year
cycle. In order to get top of the noxt 5-year cycle, add 5 years to
any bottom. For example: 1917 was bottom of a big bear campaign; nda
5 years gives 1922, top of a minor bull campaign. Why do I say, "Top
of a minor bull campaign?" Becauso the major bull campaign was dus te
end in 1929, :

1919 was top; adding 5 years to 1919 givos 1924 as bottom of a
5-year bear cycle. Refer to Rules 1 and 2, which tell you that e« bull
or bear campaign seldom runs more thon 2 to 3 years in the samo directi
The bear campaign from 1919 was 2 yoars down=—i920 and 1921: thoroforn,
wo only expoct ono-yoar rally in 1922; thon 2 yoars down—1923 ond 1924
which completes the 5-year boar cycle,

Looking back to 1913 end 1914, you will see that 1923 and 1924 mu::
be bear years to complete the 10-year cycle from the bottoms of 1913-1°

FA

Then, note 1917 bottom of a bear year; adding 7 years gives 1924 also

as bottom of a bear cycle, Then, adding 5 years to 1924 gives 1929
top ofa cycle,

FORECASTING MONTHLY MOVES

—

Monthly moves can be determined by the same rules os yearly:

Add three months to on important bottom, then add 4, making 7, to get minor
bottoms and reaction points, :

In big upswings a reaction will often not last over two months, the third month

being up, the same rule as in yearly cycle—2 down and the third up.
In extreme markets, a reaction sometimes only lasts2 or 3 weeks; then the ad-

vence is resumed. In this way a market may continue up for 12 months with-
out breaking a monthly bottom,

In ea bull market the minor trend may reverse end run down 3 to 4 months; then

turn up and follow the main trend again.
In a beer market, the minor trend may rum up 3 to 4 months, then reverse and

follow the main trend, altho, as a general rule, stocks never rally more than

2 months in a bear market; then start to break in the 3rd month and follow
the main trend down.

FORECASTING WEEKLY MOVES

The weekly movement gives the next important minor change in trend, which may
turn out to be a major change in trend.

In a bull market, a stock will often rum down 2 to 3 weeks, and possibly 4, then
reverse and follow the main trend again, As a rule, the trend will turn up in
the middle of the third week and close higher at the ond of the third week, the
stock only moving 3 weeks against the main trend. In some cases the change in

trend will not occur wtil the fourth week; then the reversal will come and the
stock close higher at the end of the fourth week.
Reverse this rule in a bear market,

In rapid markets with big volume, a move will often run 6 to 7 weeks before a
minor reversal in trend, and in some cases, like 1929, these fast moves last 13
to 15 weeks or 1/4 of a year. These are culmination moves up or down,

As there are 7 days in a week and seven timos seven cauals 49 days or 7
woeks, this ofton marks an important turning point. Thoreforo you should watch
for top or bottom oround the 49th to 52nd day, altho at times a change will start

on the 42nd to 45th day, because a period of 45 days is 1/8 of a yoar. Also watch

for culminotions at the end of 90 to 98 days.

After a markot has declinod 7 wecks, it may havo 2 or 3 short woeks on the sido

and then turn up, which ogrees with tho monthly rule for a change in the third
month.

Always watch tho onnual trond of a stock and consider whother it is in a bull or

66

=
i
i
ll
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L
L

| !

a

J
J
67

F-5

bear year. In a bull yoar, with the monthly chart showing up, thero are many

times that a stock will react 2 or 3 weeks, then rest 3 or 4 weeks, and then fo
into new territory and advance 6 to 7 weeks more,

After a stock makes top and reacts 2 to 3 weeks, it may then have a rally of 2
to 3 weeks without getting above the first tops then hold in a trading range for
several weeks without crossing the highest top or breaking the lowest week of
that range. In cases of this kind, you can buy near the low point or sell near
the high point of that range and protect with a stop loss order 1 to 3 points
ewey. However, a better plan would be to wait until the stock shows a definito
trend before buying or selling; then buy the stock when it crosses the highest
point or sell when it breaks the lowest point of that trading range.

FORECASTING DAILY MOVES

The daily movement gives the first minor change and conforms to tho same rules
as the weekly end monthly cyclos, altho it is only a minor part of thom,

In fast markets thore will only bo a 2-day move in the opposito dircction to the

main trond and on tho third day the upward or downward course will bo resumed
in harmony with the main trond,

A daily movemont may revorso trend end only rum 7 to 10 days; thon follow tho
main trond again.

During a month, natural changes in trond occur around

6th to 7th 14th to 15th 23rd to 24th
9th to 10th 19th to 20th 29th to 31st.

Thoso minor movos occur in accordance with tops and bottoms of individual
stocks.

It is very important to watch for a chango in trond 30 days from tho last top or
bottom. Then watch for changes 60, 90, 120 days from tops or bottoms.
180 days or six months—vory important and sometimes marks chaongos for great.

or moves. Also around the 270th and 330th day from important tops or bottoms,
you should watch for important minor and often major changus.

January 2nd to 7th and 15th to 2lst:

Watch these periods each year end note the high and low prices made. Until
these high prices are crossed or low prices broken, consider the trend up or down.

Many times when stocks make low in the early part of January, this low will
not be broken until the following July or August and sometimes not during the
entire year. This same rule applies in bear markets or whon the main trend is
down, High prices made in the early part of January are often high for the cn-
tire year and are not crossed wmtil after July or August. For example:

U. S. Steel on January 2, 1930 made low at 166, which was the half-way
point from 1921 to 1929, end again on January 7, 1930 declined to 167. When thi:
level was broken, Steel indicated lower prices.

July 3rd to 7th ond 20th to 27th:

The month of July, like January, is a month when most dividends aro paid
F-6

aniinvestors usually buy stocks around tho early part of the month. Watch thoso
poriods in July for tops or bottoms and a chango in trend, Go buck ovor the

charts and soo how mony times changes havo takon place in July, 180 days from
January tops or bottoms. For oxample;

July 8, 1932 was low; July 17, 1933, highs; and July 26, 1934 low of tho
morkot.

HOW TO DIVIDE THE YEARLY TIME PERIOD

Divido tho yoor by 2 to gct 6 months, tho opposition point or 180° anglo, which
oquals 26 weoks.

Divido tho yoar by 4 to gct tho 3 months" poriod or 90 days or 90° nach, which
is 1/4 of o yoaor or 13 wooks.

Divido tho yoar by 3 to got tho 4 months’ poriod, tho 120° anglo, which is 1/3
of a yor or 17-1/3 wocks.

Divide the your = 8, which givos 13 months, 45 days and oquals tho 45° angle.
This is clso 63 wooks, which shows why tho 7th monk is alwcys so important.

Divido tho yoar by 16, which givos 223 deys or —- oo 3 wooks. This oc-
counts for markot movomonts that only rum 3 wooks up or dom and thon roverso.
As oa gonoral rulo, whon any stock closos highor the 4th consecutive weck, it
wil] go higher. The Sth week is also very important for a change in trend
end for fast moves up or down. The Sth is the day, week, month, or year of

Ascension and always marks fast moves up or down, according to the major cycle
that is running out.

BULL AND BEAR CALENDAR YEARS

By studying the yearly high ond low chart and going back over a long period

of time, you will see the years in which bull markets culminate ond the years in
which bear markets begin and end.

Each docade or 10-year cycle, which is 1/10th of 100 yeurs, marks an import. .
ant campaign. Fhe digits from 1 to 9 ore important. All you have to learn is

to count the digits on your fingers in order to ascortain what kind of o yecer
the market is in.

No. 1 jin ao new decade is a year in which a becr market onds and a bull markot
bogins. Look up 1901, 1911, 1921.

No. 2 or tho 2nd yoor, is a yoar of oa minor bull market, or u rally in a boar
morket will start ot somo timo, Soe 1902, 1912, 1922, 1932.

No. 3 starts a boor yeor, but tho rally from the 2nd year mny run to March or
April bofore culmination, or a dcclino from tho 2nd yonr may rum dow fn‘
mako bottom in February or March, lil:s 1933, Look up 1903, 1913, 1923.

No, @ or tho 4th yeur, is a boar yonr, but onds tho boer cycle and lays tho
foundation for o bull markot. Compnro 1904, 1914.

68

eee eee eee

ti! C..) ti! ‘
r-7

No. 5 or tho Sth yorr, is tho yoar of Asconsion, and o vory strong yoor for a
bull markot. Soc 1905, 1915, 1925, 1935,

No. 6 is a bull yoar, in which a bull campaign which started in the 4th year

ends in the Fall of the year and a fast decline starts, Seo 1896, 1906,
1916, 1926,

No. 7 is _o bear number and the 7th year is a bear year, because 84 months or
845° is 7/8 of 90. See 1897, 1907, 1917, but note 1927 was end of a
60-yoar cycle, so not much decline.

No. 8 is a bull year. Prices start advancing in the 7th year and reach the

90th month in the 8th year. This is very strong ond a big advance usual-
ly takes place, Review 1898, 1908, 1918, 1928,

No. 9 tho highest digit ond the 9th year, is the strongost of all for bull mar-
kets. Final bull campaigns culminate in this yoar after oxtromo advencos
and prices start to doolinco. Boar markcts usually start in Soptember to
Novombor ot the ond of tho Sth yoar and a sharp doclino tckos placo,.

Soo 1869, 1879, 1889, 1899, 1909, 1919, end 1929—tho yonr of groatost
advancoos, culminating in tho fall of tho yoar, followod by a sharp doclinc.

No. 10 is a boor yoor, A rally often rums until March and April; then o severe
decline runs to November and December, when a nov: cycle begins and another
rally starts. See 1910, 1920, 1930.

In referring to these numbers and years, we mean the calendar years. To

understand this, study 1891 to 1900, 1901 to 1910, 1911 to 1920, 1921 to 19230,
1931 to 1939.

The 10-year cycle continues to repeat ovor and over, but tho greatest ad-—
vances and declines occur at the end of the 20-year and 30-year cyclos, and again
at the ond of the 50-year ond 60-yoar cycles, which are stronger than the othors.

IMPORTANT POINTS TO REMEMBER IN FORECASTING

TIME is tho most important factor of all ond not wmtil sufficiont time hasy,
expired does any big movo, up or dow, start.,»Tho Time factor will ovorbalanco
both Spaco and Volume, Whon Time is up, spaco movomont will start and big volumo
will begin, oither up or dom, At tho ond of any big movomont—with monthly,
woekly or daily—Timo must bo allowod for accumulation or distribution.

Consider ooch individual stock und determine its trend from its nosition
according to distanco in timo from bottom or ton. Each stock works out its ig: tee
3, 5, 7, 10, 15, 20, 30, 50 ond 6U-your cycies from its ovm base or bottoms and
tops, rogardless of tho movemonts of othor stocks, oven thoso in tho samo group,

Theroforo, judgo coach stock individually and koop up weekly and monthly charts
on thon,

Novor docide that tho main trond has changod ono way or the othor without
consulting tho anglos from top or bottom and without considoring tho position of
tho market and c cyclo « of ooch individual stock,
F-8

Alwoys consider the annual forccast end whether the big time limit hns rum
ovt or not before judging a reverse move. Do not fail to consider the indications

on Time, both from main tops and bottoms, also Volume of Sales and position on
Geometrical Angles.

A daily chart gives the first short change, which may rum for 7 to 10 days;
the Weekly Chart gives the next important change in trend; and the Monthly the

strongest. Remember, weekly moves run 3 to 7 weeks, monthly moves 2 to 3 mouths
or more, according to the yearly oycle, before reversing,

dearly bottoms and tops: It is important to note whether a stock is making
higher or lower bottoms each year. For instance, if a stock has made a higher
bottom each year for five years, then makes a lower bottom than the previous year,
it is a sign of reversal and may mark a long down cycle. The same rule applies
when stocks are making lower tops for a number of years in a bear market.

When extreme advances or declines occur, the first time the market reverses
over 1/4 to 1/2 of the distance covered in the previous movement, you consider
thet the trend has changed, at least temporarily.

It is important to watch space movements. When Time is running out one way
or the other, space movements will show a reversal by breaking back over 1/4, 1/2
or 1/2 of the distance of the last move from extreme low to extrome high, which
indicates that the main trend has changed,

Study all the instructions and rules that I have given you; read them over
several times, as each time they will become clearer to you. Study the charts
and work out the rules in actttal practice as woll as on past performance, In

this way you will make progress and will realize end appreciate the valuo of ny
Method of Forecasting.

HOW TO MAKE UP ANNUAL FORECASTS

I have stated before that the future is but a repotition of the past; thoro-
fore, to mako up a forecast of the futuro, you must rofor to tho provious cyc]«:.

The previous 10-ycar cycle and 20-year cycle have tho most effoct in tho
future, but in completing a forecast, it is bost to havo 30-years past reoord to
check up, as important changes occur eat tho ond of 30-yoar cyclos, In making vp
my 1935 Forecast on the general markot, I chocked tho years 1905, 1915, and 192°.
For the 1929 Forocast, 1 compared 1919—10 yoars beck, 1909-20 yoars back,
1899—30 yoars back, and 1869—60 yours back, tho Groat Cyclo.

You should also watch 5, 7, 15, ond 50-yoar poriods to soo if the markct is
repeating ono of thom closoly.

MASTER 20-YEAR FORECASTING CHART

1831 — 1935

In order to make up en annual forocast, you must refer to my Mastor 20-verr

Forecasting Chart and sec how these cveles have worked out and repeated in the

70

past.

Re OR OI tee ee PT eee
|
|
!
i
}
:
l
k
z
"
l
Ll
i
I
i
i

F-9

As stated before, tho 20-yoar cycle is the most important cycle for fore-
casting futuro market movements, It is ono-third of tho 60-year cycle and when
threo 20-year cycles run out, important bull and boar campaigns terminate.

In order for you to see and study how these cycles repeat, I have made up a
chart of 20-year cycles, beginning with the year 1831. To show all of the cycles
from 1831 to date, we have carried thru on this chart the monthly high and low
on railroad and canal stocks from 1831 to 1855. Beginning with 1856 we have used
the W. D. Gann Averages on railroad stocks until the beginning of the Dow—Jones
Averages in 1896. After that we have used the Dow-Jones Industrial Stock Averages.

After the end of the 20-year cyclo in 1860,
the next cycle begins at 1861 and rums to 1880,
the next cycle begins at 1881 and rums to 1900,
the next cycle begins at 1901 and runs to 1920, AE Fi
the next cyclo bcgins at 1921 and runs to 1940.

By placing the monthly high and low prices for each of those 20-year periods
above each other, it is easy to soe how the cycles repeat. Tho yoar of the cycles
are marked from "1" to "20." Study the chart and note whet happoned in tho 8th

and 9th yoar of each cyclo—that oxtrome high prices have always bcon reachod,
For oxamplo;

1929 FORECAST:

According te my discovery of the 60-year cycle, I had figured that 1929
would repeat like iu6y¥, ivuy, and 1919. Looking back 20 years, we find that top
was reached in August, 1909, and 60 years before, top was reached in July, 1869,
If you will read my Annual Forecast for 1929, you will see that I had figured the
top must come not later than the end of August and stated that a "Black Friday”
would como in September, Following strictly the 1869 top, the top would havo
come in July, 1929, and some stocks did make top at that time. Following tho 190%
top, we could expect top in August, and the actual high of the averages and mony
individual stocks was reached on September 3, 1929, Going back to 1919, we find
that the Averages made first top in July and a big decline followed, “but extreme |
high was made in the early part of Novembor,

From all of these tops—1869, 1909, and 1919—sharp declines followed in the
foll of the year, just as they did in 1929, Therefore you sce how easy it was to
follow this great odvanco and determine *non it would culminate, Thore *- ro

other way, outside of using the 20 and 60-year cyclo that we could hava fore-o-+
this groat bull campaimn and its culmination so closoly in 1929,

1869-73 VS. 1929-33:

After the 1869 top, stocks continuod to declino and reached low in November,
1873. See how many other bottoms were reached around this time in other cycles.
After the big decline from 1929, notice that in October, 1933 the last low was
reached on the Dow-Jones Avorages; thenfollowed an advance to new high levels,
crossing the top of July, 1933.

1935 FORECAST:

Figuring out tha Foreoast for 1935, we see on this 20-year Chart that wo ara
running against 1855, 1875, 1895, 1915; therefore, we look to sec what happened
in those years. We find that in 1895 the high was reached in September, in 1915
F-10

the high of the year was reached in December.

Then, look back et 1865, 1885, 1905, and 1925, the years in the 5th zone or
the 10-year cycles. We find that in 1665 the high was reached in October; in
1905 the high was in Octobers in 1925 the high was in November.

Then, we would have a good guide in making up the Forecast for 1935 ond
would know what months to watch for top and a change in trend. My Annual Forecas?

for 1935, which was made up in October, 1934, indicated top for October 28 and a
secondary top for November 15-16, 1935.

There are other ways of using this Chart. to advantage. One method of doter-—
mining the trend is to compare the years of previous cycles in tho same zono.
For example; After the Dow—Jones 30 Industrial Averages crossed 108 in May, 1935
they wero above the average high price of all the provious yoars in tho 15th-venr

zone. Therefore, the market indicated highor prices and showed that thero woul:
be a bull campaign.

1936 FORECAST;

If we wish to make up a forecast for tho yoar 1936, we comparo tho yoars in
the 16th-year zone, viz. 1856, 1876, 1896, and 1916. As 60 years back is a very
important cycle, wo look at 1876 first, thon 1896, ond 1916.

1876 - Wo find that the averagos rum up and rooch high in March;
then decline to tho ond of the yoar.

1896 - Next, wo look at 1896, which is 40 yoars back, or two 20-yoar
cyclos, a very important presidontial olection ycar, just as
1936 will be. We find that there was a moderate rally into
February, a decline to March, then a small rally to May,
from which a panicky decline followed, culminating on August
8, 1896, with the averages at the lowest levels in years.

From that point a bull campaign started, with prices working
higher to December,

1916 - The next important cycle is 20 years later, or 1916. We find
that prices declined in January, rallied moderately in February,
then deolined sharply to April, rallied to June, then declined
and made bottom in July, from which o big bull campaign started,
making top in November, 1916, in o war market. A panicky do-
clino followed from the latter part of November into Decombor.

This completes our comparison of the 60, 40, and 20-year cycles back from
1936. Next, we look up the cycles on the other sido of the Chart, in the 6th

yoor of the 20-yoor cyclo, or tho 6th zono, or tho 10-year cyclos. Thoso years
ere 1866, 1886, 1906, and 1926,

1866 ~— We find that in 1866 thoro was a sharp decline, rooching bottom
in Fobruary; thon on advaonco, with top of the year in October.

1886 ~ Wo find a sharp decline and bottom in January, a moderato relly
into March, then o sharp decline to now lows in May; o sharp
advanco, reaching high in Novombor, ond a sharp declino in
Deoembor.

1906 — The noxt important cyclo to consider is 1906. Im that yocr tho
groat NcKinloy boom, which began in 1896, culminatod., Tho
reilrood avoragos roached tho highest prico in history up to
thot timo. From tho high of Jonuery, o sharp decline followod

72

tn Galil eel gael cel eel ce ce ee ee ee ee

bes bes f.. © ff
F-11

to May. Much of this solling was cousod by tho San Francisco
oarthquake, Thon, thoro was a rally into Junc, followod by

o shorp declino to low in July, with the bottom just slightly
highor than tho low of May, From this low thore was on advanco
to Septombor, whon onothor top was made, but lowor than tho top
in January; then followod a doclino into Docembor ond a panic
followod in 1907.

1926 - The noxt important 10-yoar cyclo to consider is 1926, whon tho
great Coolidgo bull campaign wos under way. From the low in
Docember, 1925, stocks rallied to Fobruary, 19263; then had a
sharp declino to March, somo stocks brooking os much os 100
points, From this bottom thore was a sharp advanoo to now high
levols, roaching top in Augusts thon anothor sharp doclino to
bottom in Octobor, from which o rally followod to Docombor,
but stocks did not got back to tho high ronoched in August that
yoar.

Now, whon I get ready to make up my Forecast for 1936, I will consider all
of these oycles. I will go back and also chock the 7-year cycles, the 14-year
and 15-year cycles, which is half of the 30-year cycle, But, at this writing,
with my knowledge and experience of the future cycles, I expect the 1696 cycle
to repeat in 1936.

1936 is likely to be a very uncertain election year just as it was in 189,
when the Bryan silver scare cousod o panicky decline into August. There is o
possibility of a three-cornered fight, with two Democratic presidontial candi-
dates and one Republican. There cortoinly is going to be e time during 1936 when
the investors ore going to get scared and speculetors are going to got scared ~
end soll stocks, causing sharp doclines,

My opinion, at this writing, is that the first decline will start in tho
month of January and wind up with ao sharp declino, February—The market mey drift
along in a narrow, trading range with some rallies, tut there will be anothor
decline in the month of March, just as there was in 1926. I om confident that
there will be another brenk in the months of May and Juno, ospecially in the
latter half of Moy, os this will be running out four years from the 1932 low and
6 yeors from April, 1930 high, oll of which ore indications of important changes
in trend. ,

We know thot prosidentiaol nominations will take place in July, thoreforo
this is a month to watch for uncertainties and declines, wless sharp declines
have come before that time. The ending of the cyole from 1696 in August in quite
importent and regardless of how high or how low stocks are, there sre likely to
be some sharp declines before the end of August. Again, in the last half of Sep-
tember, uncertain conditions and possibility of sharp declines are indicated.
This may mark the lest low and en election rally may start if there are indica-
tions of a change in Administration by the election of a Republican president,
which, I believe, at this writing, will happen.

September, October, and November are all important because these months arc
7 years from the top in September, 1929 and 7 yoars from the panicky decline in
October and November, 1929, I would cxpect a rally to take place aftor the elec-
tion in November, which would last anyway until the early part of Decombcr. If
conditions show signs of improvemont and if the people are satisfied with the man
elected, thon tho advance will probably continuo into Decombor, with high pricos
around the end of the yoar.

F-11

to May. Much of this solling was cousod by tho San Francisco
oarthquake, Thon, thoro was a rally into Junc, followod by

o shorp declino to low in July, with the bottom just slightly
highor than tho low of May, From this low thore was on advanco
to Septombor, whon onothor top was made, but lowor than tho top
in January; then followod a doclino into Docembor ond a panic
followod in 1907.

1926 - The noxt important 10-yoar cyclo to consider is 1926, whon tho
great Coolidgo bull campaign wos under way. From the low in
Docember, 1925, stocks rallied to Fobruary, 19263; then had a
sharp declino to March, somo stocks brooking os much os 100
points, From this bottom thore was a sharp advanoo to now high
levols, roaching top in Augusts thon anothor sharp doclino to
bottom in Octobor, from which o rally followod to Docombor,
but stocks did not got back to tho high ronoched in August that
yoar.

Now, whon I get ready to make up my Forecast for 1936, I will consider all
of these oycles. I will go back and also chock the 7-year cycles, the 14-year
and 15-year cycles, which is half of the 30-year cycle, But, at this writing,
with my knowledge and experience of the future cycles, I expect the 1696 cycle
to repeat in 1936.

1936 is likely to be a very uncertain election year just as it was in 189,
when the Bryan silver scare cousod o panicky decline into August. There is o
possibility of a three-cornered fight, with two Democratic presidontial candi-
dates and one Republican. There cortoinly is going to be e time during 1936 when
the investors ore going to get scared and speculetors are going to got scared ~
end soll stocks, causing sharp doclines,

My opinion, at this writing, is that the first decline will start in tho
month of January and wind up with ao sharp declino, February—The market mey drift
along in a narrow, trading range with some rallies, tut there will be anothor
decline in the month of March, just as there was in 1926. I om confident that
there will be another brenk in the months of May and Juno, ospecially in the
latter half of Moy, os this will be running out four years from the 1932 low and
6 yeors from April, 1930 high, oll of which ore indications of important changes
in trend. ,

We know thot prosidentiaol nominations will take place in July, thoreforo
this is a month to watch for uncertainties and declines, wless sharp declines
have come before that time. The ending of the cyole from 1696 in August in quite
importent and regardless of how high or how low stocks are, there sre likely to
be some sharp declines before the end of August. Again, in the last half of Sep-
tember, uncertain conditions and possibility of sharp declines are indicated.
This may mark the lest low and en election rally may start if there are indica-
tions of a change in Administration by the election of a Republican president,
which, I believe, at this writing, will happen.

September, October, and November are all important because these months arc
7 years from the top in September, 1929 and 7 yoars from the panicky decline in
October and November, 1929, I would cxpect a rally to take place aftor the elec-
tion in November, which would last anyway until the early part of Decombcr. If
conditions show signs of improvemont and if the people are satisfied with the man
elected, thon tho advance will probably continuo into Decombor, with high pricos
around the end of the yoar.

F-12

This is merely a general outline that I am giving without completing all
of my calculations and making up the Annual Forecast in detail.

INDIVIDUAL STOCKS:

I have told you before that you should not depend upon the Averages to fore-
cast the trend of individual stocks. These Averages give you the general trend,
and while many stocks will follow this average trend, you should figure out each
stock individually and let its position on geometrical angles and time --riods

determine the different months in the year when the stock is likely to make tops
end bottoms.

Take any individual stock and make up a chart like the Master Forecasting
Chart, carrying it across 10 years or 20 years, and see how its tops and bottoms
come out. I have made up a chart of the 10-year cycles on U. &. Stee] and also
a chart of the 20-year cycles, and am always glad to furnish these charts to
students of my Course on Foreoasting so that they may study the individual stocks

and be convinced that the theory will work on an individual stock even better
than it will work on the Averages.

No man can study the Master 20-year Forecasting Chart and the cycles with-
out being convinced that time cycles do repeat at regular intervals and that it
is possible to forecast future market movoments, By studying Resistenco Levels,
Geometrical Angles, and Volume of Sales in connection with the Cycles, you can
determine when the trend is changing at the end of campaigns.

FAST MOVES AND CULMINATIONS AT IMPORTANT TIME PERIODS

It is important to go over the monthly chart of Industrial or Railroad
averages or any individual stock and look up the months when fast advances and

fast declines have occurred and figure the number of months from ony important
top and bottom.

Wotch how bottoms and tops come out on the important Goometrical Angles
or proportionate parts of the circle of 360°, which aro:

112 562. x90 1232 168= 2132 2472 2923 3262

22 760 1014 #135 180 225 2585 *%300 337%

332 67 1125 1464 1914 2362 §=*270 3032 348¢
*45 78$ 120 1575 2025 «240 2815 2s w315 F360

(x very important)

Thess angles meesure tho time poriods. Alwuys watch what happens around 45, 60,
90, 120, 135, 180, 225, 240, 270, 300, 315 and 360 months from ony important top

or bottom, as oll of these angles aro vory strong and important, just tho samo
as the 45° oanglo, and: indicato strong culmination points.

REVIEW OF DOW-JONES INDUSTRIAL STOCKS FROM 1896:

Go back to the extremo low of August, 1896—

1897 - A secondary low was recorded in April, 1897. We find that thoro was a
fast advance in tho llth to 13th months from August, 1896 low,

74
mesa at Bf me ee Em SS & Ss see es SES

F-13

1898 —~ A fast advance occurred in the 16th and 24th months from the bottoms of
1897 ond 1896, ond o fast docline in the 17th and 25th months.

1899 - A bull year. Fast advance occurred in the 29th to 32nd months from 1896
and in the 2lst to 24th months from 1897 bottom. Fast declines occurred
in the 40th and 32nd months from these bottoms,

1900 — Fast advance 42nd to 44th months from 1897 and 50th to 52nd months from
1896 bottom,

1901 —A fast decline on the 49th month from 1897 and 57th month from 1896 low,
: Top reached in Jue,

1903 - A bear year. 22nd to 28th month from 1901 top, a fast decline— also 72nd

to 78th months from 1897 bottom and 80th to 86th months from 1896 bottom.
Bottom reached in October and November, 1903,

1904 - Fast advance, 12 to 14 months from 1903 bottom.

1905 - Fast move up in the 16th to 18th months; fast decline in the 19th month,
and a fast advance in the 25th to 27th months from 1903 bottom.

1906 - Top of campaign reached in January. Fast decline in the 30th month from
"1903 bottom.

1907 -— Fast decline in the 14th month from 1906 top and in the 19th to 22nd
months. Extreme low reached in November, 1907, in the 135th month from
1896 bottom, 127 months from 1897 low, and 22 nonths from 1906 top.

1909 - Top of campaign reached in October, 45 months from 1906 top and 23 months
from 1907 bottom, 158 months from 1896,

1914 - July, a fast decline in the 57th month from 1909 top, 21 months from 1912
top. Extreme low of campaign in December, 107 months from 1906 top, 26
months from 1912 top, 220 months from 1896 low, 84 months or 7 years fron
1907 bottom, end 134 months from 1903 bottom,

1915 — This was a war year. March and April—Fast advance on the 3rd and 4th
months from the 1914 bottom. May—A sharp, severe decline, 90 months
from November, 1907 bottom and 225 months from 1896 bottom, Note theso

fast moves on a 90° angle and 225° angle, which is equal to a 45° angle,
or 180 plus 45.

1916 ~ April—A sharp decline, 16 months from the 1914 bottom, 123 months fron
1906 top, and 236 months from 1896 low, September—Fast advance, 21 month-
from 1914 low, anid 240 months from 1896 low, the end of the 20-year cyclo,
indicating an important change in trend. November—Top of a fast advanc.;
Dow—Jones Industrial Averages at the highest price in history ~p to that
time. This was 23 months from 1914 bottom and 243 months from 1896 bottom.
December—A sharp decline, 24 months from 1914 bottom.

1917 - August to December—A fast decline, 9 to 13 months from Novenber, 1916 tor,
32 to 36 months from the 1914 bottom, 117 to 121 months from the 1907 bot-
tom, and 252 to 256 months from 1896 low,

1919 - A fast advance started in Fobruary end lasted wmtil July. This was 27 to
1920

1921

1924

1926

F-14

32 months from the 1916 top, and 50 to 55 months from 1914 low, February,
1919 was 135 months from the 1907 low and 270 months from 1696 bottom.
The 135th end 270th months, being 3/8 and 3/4 of the circle, were very
important for ohanges in trend and starting of moves. October and early
November—Final top, 36 months from 1916 top, November—A panicky de-
cline, 23 months from 1917 low, 59 months from 1914 bottom (end of a 5-
year cycle), and 279 months from 1896 bottom.

- November and December—A fast decline, 12 to 13 months from 1919 top, 35

to 36 months from 1917 low, 72 months from 1914 bottom, 157 months from
- 1907 bottom, and 291 to 292 months from 1896 bottom.

August—Low of bear campaign, 21 months from 1919 top, 80 months from 1914
bottom, 165 months from 1907 bottom, and 300 months from 1896 botton.

May—The last low was made, from which a fast advence started one of the
greatest bull campaigns in history, ending in 1929. This was 54 months

from the 1919 top, 33 months from 1921 low, 113 months from 1914 low, and
333 months from 1896 low.

- March—A big decline, with some stocks declining 100 points. This was 23

months from May, 1924 low, 29 months from 1923 low, 55 months from 1921
low, 135 months from 1914 low, and 355 months from 1896 low,
August—Stooks reached the highest price up to that time, the Dow—Jones
Industrial Averages selling at 166, This was 27 months from May, 1924
low, 34 months from October, 1923 low, 60 months from 1921 bottom, 225
nonths from 1907 low, and 360 months or 30 years from 1896 low, Then a
20-point decline followed to October, which was 2 months in a new 30-year

__ cycle from the bottom of 1896.

1928 and 1929 were years of some of the fastest moves in history.

1929 - May to September—One of the fastest moves, advancing nearly 100 points on

Averages. Final high in September. This was;

118 months from 1919 top, 97 months from August, 1921 low,
240 months from 1909 top, 177 nonths fron 1914 low,

42 months from Maroh, 1926 low, 262 nonths from 1907 low,
64 months from May 1924 bottom, 37 months in the second oyclo
71 months from October, 1923 low, of 30 years fron 1856 low,

Note the strong time angles on the Monthly Chart rumning out in Octobor
end November, 1929, which are 32, 40, 45, 674, 75, 120, 180.

1930 - April—Lest top bofore another big declino. This was 49 months from March,

1926 low, 71 months from 1924 low, ond 78 months from 1923 low.
May—A sharp, sovero decline, This wos 270 mouths from 1907 low and 45

months in the second cyclo from 1896 low, Thon thore wore fast declines
to 1931.

1931 - September—A decline of 46 points on the Dow-—Jones Averages. This was 24

months from. the 1929 top, 95 and 86 months from 1923 and 1924 lows, 121

months or the beginning of a new 10-year cyole from 1921 low, 201 months
from 1914 low, and 61 months in the new cyole from 1896.

1932 ~ July 8th—Extrene low of the bear campaign was reached» This was 71 months

76

in the new cycle from 1896 low, 131 months from 1921 low, 105 end 96 month:
from 1923 and 1924 lows, 27 months from April, 1930 top, and 34 months fr™

RI bRti bit Ltr rr ee eS ee eS eS eS Se
= Pe FF FP eee eS ee ce ome —
| i | |

|
~—

F-15

1929 top. August and September—A sharp, fast advance in stocks. This
was 35 and 36 months from 1929 top, 28 and 29 months fron April, 1930 top,

72 end 73 months in the new cycle from 1896 low, end 132 to 133 months
from 192]. low,

1933 - April to July—A fast advance. This was 43 to 46 months fron 1929 top.
Always watch for culminations eround the 45th month and multiples of 45,
It was also 36 to 39 nonths from the 1930 top, 9 to 12 months from 1932
low, and 80 to 63 months in the new cycle fron 1696, or running out a
7-year cycle in the new 30-year cycle, October, 1933—-Low of reaction,

42 months fron April, 1930 top, 49 months from 1929 top, and 15 months
from 1932 low.

1934 - February—Top. This was 46 months from 1930 high, 53 months from 1929
high, 12 months from 1933 low, 19 months from 1932 low, and most important
of ell, 90 months in tho new 30-year cyolo from August, 1926, From this

top a sharp decline followed, July—This marked the last low before a
big bull campaign started. This was 58 months from 1929 top, 51 months
from 1930 top, 24 months from 1932 low, and 95 months or the onding of tho
8th year in the new cycle from 1896. Going into the 9th year of this
cycle, tho market indicated o big bull campaign to follow in 1935, as
explained before.

Go ovor individual stocks and work out their cycles in the same way. Look
up the months when extreme highs and lows have been made and note the nonths from
each bottom and top when fast advences and fast declines have taken plece. By
keeping up the tine periods fron important tops and bottoms, you will know when
important time periods are running out and when a change in trond is likely to

tuko placa, Also wntch the seasonal changes in trond around March to April,
Soptember to October, and November to Doconbor,

All of this will help you to pick the stocks that are going to have tho
greatest advances and the ones that aro going to have the greatost declines.

The moro you work and study, the more you will loarn and tho greator profits you
will make.

NEW YORK STOCK EXCRANGZ PERMANENT CHART

This Master Chart is a square of 20, or 20 up and 20 over, making a total of
400, which can be used to measure days, weeks, months or years, and to determino
when tops and bottoms will be made against strong angles as indicated on this
Permanent Chart. This chart works out the 20-year cycles remarkably well becese
it is the square of 29. For example:

The New York Stock ¥xchange was incorporated on May 27, 2792. Therefore, we
begin at "0" on May 17, 1792. 1793 ends on "1", when the Stock Exchange wns ono
year old. 1612 will come out on 20, 1832 on 40, 1852 on GO, 1872 on 80, 1892 or.
100, 1912 on 120, and 1932 on 140, Note that 140, or 7 times 20, in 1932 is ogus
to 90° angle and is at the top of the 7th nn or tho 7th space over, which indi.
cated thet 1932 was the ending of a bear campaign nnd great cyc)n and the startii.
of a bull market, We would watch for u culmination oround Muy to July, 1932, as
F-16
the cycle onded May 17, 1792.

You will notice that the numbers which divide tho square into equal parts,
run across 10, 30, 50, 70, 90, 110, eto., and that tho year 1802 comos out on 10
the year 1822 on 30, tho year 1842 on 50, tho year 1862 on 70. Noto that tho

yeer 1861, when the Civil War broko out, was on the number 69

9, which is on ea 45°
anglo. Then note that 1882 ended in May on the 90° angle and at tho 1/2-point,
180° angle, running horizontally across,

Again in 1902 it was at 110, the 1/2-point, ond in 1903 ond 1904 hit the
45° angle. Note that the years 1920 and 1921 hit the 45° angle on No. 129, and
1922—the first yoar of the bull market—was at 130 at tho 1/2-point.

Note that 1929 was on the 137th number, or 137 month, and hit on angle of
45°, and that the year 1930 was at the 1/2-point on the 4th square, a strong
Resistance Point, which indicated a sharp, severe decline.

1933 was on 141 or the boginning of the 8th Zone and aot the center or half-

way point of the 2nd quartor of the Square of 20, indicating activity and fast
advances and fast declines,

The years 1934 and 1935, ending in May, were on 142 and 143, and 1935 comos
out on the 45° angle at the grand-center in the 8th Zone and at the half—ray

point of the 2nd square, going to if2 of the totol square, which indicated great
activity.

You can also use this chart from October 12, 1492, when Columbus discovered

America. 1892 was end of 400 years or Square of 20. 1932 was 40 years in the n
Square of 20,

You can use this Square of 20 for time periods on individual stocks ond for
price resistance levels,

If you will study the weeks, months, as well as the years, and apply them tc

these importont points and angles, you will see how they have determinod the
importent tops and bottoms in the past campaigns.

78

ccrorrrrrrrrewaees#ns |

oo
CHAPTER 6

ENHANCED MASTER CHARTS

ee ee ee ee eee

W. D. GANN

MIMDLA

Sovrrsmic —— 70 WALL STREET Aurnican Economic Assi
AND ANALYTICAL REPouTs Raa york Roval ECoNmauc Soar
“c27UcKs aD CuMMODINIS” NEW CApLEADDATSS

yr “TAUTH OF FHL STOCK TATI™ “Ganwapt NewyYorx=

Tre TUNNIL THRU THE AIR™

MASTE

:

CHARTS
etetecs

The Master Charts are permenent and represent natural angles
and permanent resistance points for either price; time or volune.
These: points dv not change and you should study therm carefully on
each different mine Chart and learn how to.epply them.

ASTER’ "172" CHART

The MASTER: CHART is the Square of "12" or 12-x°12, making the
first square end at 144. The Second Square of "12"" ends at 288, the
Third Sauere of "12" at 432; and the Fourth Square at. 576, which
Will cover most anything. thet you. want, but you can make up as
many more squares as you need.

This chart may be.used and applied to anything--. TIME, SPACE,
PRICE OR VOIIME, the number-of-points up or down; days, “weeks , months
and years.

On Square No. 1, which’ runs from 1 to 144 Pee i have drawn. the
finer angles to show the. gErand-center or strongest resistance point
in each minor square. The minor centers, which ere the strongest
for minor tops and Sobtone: are 14, 17, 20, 25, vay 53; 56, °59, 85,
89,°92, 95, 122, 125, 128, 131. -

The major center is where the strongest pesistance is mete
These*numbers are 66, 67, 78. and 79, Stocks going up or coming
down to these prices will meet with stubborn resistance: : The next
strong angle is the 45°, and the numbers of greatest resistance on
it are 14, 27; 40, 53, 66, -79, 92,.105, 118, 151 and 144. The
other diagonal 450 angle from ‘12 is equally. strong. The numbers
are 12, 23, 34, 45, 56, 67, 73, 8&9, 100, 111, 122 and 153.

The numbers which are cut by the 45° ancles thru‘the center of
each of the 1/4 squares are next in strength. These numbers cre
7, 20, 33,-46, 59, 72, 61, 50, 39, 28, 17 and'G, end on the other
side af* the: square, aiter you p&ss the half-way. point, these
numbers ere.73, 96, 99, 112, 125, 138, 139, 128, 117, 106, 95 and
84.

The numbers at the tops and bottoms of the squares are
-~mportant prices for ‘important tops .and bottoms to be made because
they are opposition numbers end ere equa? to the half-wey point.
These nwabers for Square No. 1 are 1, 15, 25, 37, 49, 61, 73, 8&5,
97, 109, 121, 155. The top numbers are 12, 24, 36, é8, 60, 72, 84,
96, 108, 120, 132, and 144. These are very important to measure
time in deys, weeks. months and years.

81

aD

The opposition angle, which runs thru the centé#r of the Square,
from east to west, equally dividing it,.is one af the very strong
‘ngles because "it ennals one-half. Any stock moving up or down
and reaching these .prices will meet with any resistance and make
tops or bottoms. These numbers are 6, 7, 18, 19, 30, 31, 42, 43,
54, 55, 66, 67, 78, 79, 90, 91, 102,,105, 114, 115, 126, 127, 158,
139.

Remember, when anything has moved three sections over from the

“beginning, it reaches the square of its own place, which is the

first strong resistance. When it has moved six sections over, it
reaches the opposition, or what equals the half-way point of its own
place and meets still stronger resistance. Moving over nine places
or sections from its own’ place, it reaches the 3/4 point, another
square, The 8th and 9th sections are’the strongest and hardest
points to pass because this is the “death" zone, The next and. still
stronger is the 12th section or column which ends at 144. Anything .
getting into this section meets .the-strongest resistance but once it

_moves out of this squdre'and gets ‘as much as 3 points into Square

#2, that is, making 147, will indicate much higher. But after
aaeny this, it should not drop back.to 141 ‘or’3 points into Square
“1, : Z

When ‘a stock gets into the Second Square of "12", it’ has faster
moves, and when the time or number of months from any bottom or top
moves into the SecondSquaré, it is an indication of faster-moves,
oth up and down, ; :

Apply.the same rule-to the Srd,.4th, 5th and 6th Squares. In
the Srd and 4th sqhares of the Master."12", you will find that most..
of the big bull and bear campaigns culminate, when measured by
months, which determinés the division, according to time. Ali of
the other rules given you to apply to Space movements, angles and
time, can be. used with the Master "12" tables.

SQUARE. OF - NINE

You have already had the MASTER SQUARE OF TWELVE .explained, which
represents days, weeks, months and years, and the measurements of
TIME in the square-of Twelve or the square of .the Circle; also used
to measure price movements and resistance levels.

The SQUARE OF NINE is very important because nine digits are
used -in rcasuring everything. We cannot go beyond 9 without stert-
ing to repeat and using the 0. If we divide 360° by 9, we get 40,
which measures: 40°, 40 months, 40 days, 40 weeks or 40 months, and
shows why bottoms and.tops often come out on these engles messured by
one-ninth-of the circle. This is why the children of Israel were 40
years in the wilderness.

If we divide our 20-yeer period, or 240 months, by S, we set
26-2/3 months, making an important angle of 26-2/3%, months , deys
or weeks. Nine times 9 equals 81, WHich completes the First Square
of Nine. Note the 2@nrmles end how they run from the main center.
The Second Scuare of Nine is completed at 162. Note how this is in,
opposition to the main center. The Third sGuare of Nine is completed
&t 243, which would €qual 243 months or 3 months over our 20-year

we a a oe
ass

pericd and accounts for the time which often elapsgs before the
change in the Cycle, sometimes running over 3 months or mone. The
Fourth Square of Nine ends at 324... Note the angles of 45° cross at
325, indicating a change:in. cycles. here.. To. complete the 360° re-
quires Four Squares of Nine and 36 over. .Note that 361 equals a
Square of 19 times 19, thus proving the great value of the Square
of Nine in working out ° the important angles and proving up dis-~
crepancies,

Beginning with:"1" at the center, note how 7, 21, 43, 73, 111,
157, -211,:- 275 and 345 all fall on a 450 angle. Going the other way,
note that 3 13, 31, 57, 91,:133, 183, 241, and 307 fall on &n
angle.of 45°, Remember. there are erly four ways you can travel
from a center following &@n angle of 45 or an angle of 180° or an

' angle of 90°, which all équal about: the « ‘same when measured on a

flat surface: . Note that .8, 25, 46, 77, 116,°163, 218, 281 end 352

. are all on en angle from the ‘mein center; also note that 4,°15, 34,

61,.96, 139, 190, 249, and 316.are on an angle from the main- center,
ali of "these being great. resistance points and measuring out :

important time factors and angles.

Study the SQUARE | OF NINE ‘very carefully in connection with the
MASTER TSELVE and-360° CIRCLE CHART. .

SIX SQUARES OF NINE

You will receive ‘six permanent Charts, each. containing 8r
numbers, : The First Square ef Nine runs from-1 to 81, Everything
must have -a bottom, top, and four :sides to be @ square or cube,

The first. square-running.up to 81 is the bottom, base, floor or
beginning point. Squares #2, 3,4, end’5 are the four sides, which
are equal and contain 81 numbers .- Phe Sixth Square of Nine is the
top and means‘that it is times times 4s referred to in the Bible, or

‘a thing reproducting itself by being multipled by itself; Nine

times nine equals 82 and six times 81 equals 486. VWWe can also use
9 times 81, which would equal 729.

’ The number 5 is the most importent number of the digits because
it is the’-balance or main center. There .are four numbers on each
side of it. -Note how it is shown as the -balancing or center number
in the Square of Nine. -

Wwe square the Circlg by beginning at .1 in the cénter and going
around until we reach 360. Note thet- the.Square of Nine comes out
at 361. The reason for this‘is: It is 19 times 19, and the 1 to
begin with and 1 over 360 represent the beginning end ending points.
561 is a transition point and begins -the next circle. Should we
leave the first space. blank or mke it "0", then we would come out
eat 360. Everything in mathematics must prove. You can begin at
the center and work out,.or begin at the outer rim and work in to

the center. Begin at the left and -work right to the center or to
the opter rim or square,

Note the Square of Nine or the Square of the Circle, where we
begin with 1 and run up-the side of the colum to 19, then continue
to go across until we have made 19 columns, again the square of 19
~

by 19. Note how this proves up the circle. One-half of the circle
js-180°. Note that in the grand-center, whére #11 angles from the
four corners and from the Eest, Test, North and South reéch gravity
center, number 181 appears, showing that at this point we are-
crossing the Fquater or Gravity center and are starting on the other

haif of the circle.

We have astronimical and mathematical proof. of the whys and
wherefores and the cause of the workings of geometrical angles»
When you have made progress, proved yourself worthy, I will give.
you the Master Number and aiso the Mastér Yord. .

THE HEXAGON CHART

Since-everything moves in-a circie and nothing moves in

‘straight: lines,;“this chart+is -to show you how the angles - influence

stocks at very-low levels dnd very high levels and why stocks move
faster-tho Higher they get, because they have moved out to where
the’ distance between’ the-angles of 45° are so far epart that there
is.nothing to stop them and their moves are naturally rapid up and
down. . .

We begin with a circle. of. "1" in the center end while this
only contains 1, yet the circle is 560° just.the same. We then
plage a-circie of circles around this circie and six circics |
complete the second ‘circle,msking © gain of 6 over the first. one,
ending thse-second circle st 7, making-7 on this angle a very im-
portant month, year, end week as -well cs day, the seventh day being
secred and a day of rest; The third circle is-completed at 19.

The fourth circie around is completed at 57,°a8 gain of 18 over the

previous ciréle. he fifth circle is completed at 61,.0 gain of
24 over the previous circle, The sixth circle is completed at -91,
a gain of 30 over.the.previous circle,-and the .seventh circle et
127,-a gain of 86 over the last circle. Note that from the first
the gain is 6 each time we go around. In other words, when we —
have traveled -six times around we have gained 36. Note that this
completes the first Hexagon and’ as this equals 127 months, shows
why some campaigns will run 10 years 4nd seven months, or until
they reach 2 square of the Hexegon, or the important :last angle .of
45 . : : :

The eighth circle around is completed at 169, a gain of 42
over the first. This is a very important angle end an important
time factor for more reasons than one. It is 14 years end one
month, or double our Cycle of 7 years. Important tops end bottoms
culminate at this angle 2s you will see by going over your charts.

The ninth circle is completed at 217, a sein of 48 over the
previous circle. The tenth circle is completed at 271, a gain
of 54. Note that 271 is the 9th circle from the first, or is tho
third 90% angle or"270° three-fourths of e circle, a very strong
point. All this is confirmed by the Naster Twelve Chart, by the
four seasons and by the Squere of Nine Chart, and olso confirmed by
the Hexegen Chert, showing that methemstical proof is always
exetct no matter how meny ways or from whet directions you figure it.

82

ae ee |

J
J
J
J
J
J
= ee eS SO week. SH be Eee eee eS

84

-5-

The eleventh circle is completed-at 331, o rain of 60 over the
ast circle. The twelfth circle is complctcd at 397, which completes
whe Hex&gon, making & gain in 11 circles of 66 from the beginning.
66, months, or 5 years #nd six-months, marks the culmination of
major campaigns in stocks. Note how often they culminate on the 60th
month, then have ao reaction, and make o second top-or bottom in the
66th month,, Note the number 66 on the Master Twelve Chart. - Note it
on the Square of Nine and see that 66 occurs on én angle of 180° on
the Hexcgon Chart, a11- of. which confirms the strong angle e«t this
point. ;

We heve.an engle of 66°, one of 674, and one of 68, confirming
this point to be doubly strong for tops cnd bottoms or spece move-
ments up or down. ° ,

Note the number 360 on the Hexagm ‘Chart. It completes a circle
of 360°. From our beginning point this occurs-at an angle of 150° |
on the Hexagon Chart going around,- but metsuring from the centcr, it
would equal an angle of 90° or .180", making this e strong point,.
nard‘and difficult to pass, end -the ending: of onc- campaign end the
beginning of another.

Agoin with the center of the. Hexagon Chart at "1" notice thet
7, 9, 37, 61, 91,.127, 169; 217,: 271, 331, and 397 are ©1121 on-this . .
direct angle ond are important. points in time metsurement. Beginning
‘ith "1" ond following the other angle, note that 2, 9, 22, 41, 66,

‘97, 134, 177, 226, 281, and 342 are all onthe seme cngle of 90%, or

an angle of 60% and 240° as mecsured by the Hexagon Chart.

Go- over this Chart und the important angles each way and you -
will sce why resistance is met either on days, weeks, months, or
years, and why stocks stop and make tops end bottoms at these strong

importent points according to time ond’ price.

Yhhen any stock hes passed: out cbove 120° or especially above

127° or 127 points cnd gone out of the sauere of the first Hexegon,

its fluctuetions will be more rapid and it will move faster up and

-down, Notice necr the center thst in treveling from 6 to 7 it

strikes the engle of 180% or 90%, but when the stock géts out to

-162, it cen travel up to 169 before striking cnother strong engle.

That is why fest moves occur up-2nd down as stocks get higher and es
they move from &3.center in time.

Remember thst everything seeks the center of gravity tnd
importent tops and bottoms are formed according to centers and
mécsurements of time from a center, bese or beginning- point, cither
top or bottom. The angles formed foing straignt up end tcross, may
form just the seme going across @s ‘the stock trsvéls over for dtys,
weeks, months or yosrs. Thus, © stock going up to 223 would strike
n angle of 203°. If it moves over 222 dsys, 223 weeks, or 22z
months, it would @lso strike tn angle of 223°, snd the higher it is
when theso cngles cré struck and the ongle it hits going up, the
greeter the resistance to be met. Reverse the rule going down.

Market mevements cre made just the seme as cny other thing which

85

=6=

is constructed, It is just the seme os constricting o building.
“pst the foundetion has to be laid and then the four sides have to
pe completed: and last, but not least of all, the top has to be put

-on. ‘The cube or hexagon proves exectly ‘the lew which Works because

of time and space in the market. .“then a building is put up it is
vuijt according to 2 square or hexagon. It has four walls or four
sides, 2 bottom and a top; therefore, it is a ‘cube,

In working out thé 20-year. Cycle in the stock market, the first
60°, or 5S years, from the beginning forms the bottom of the cube.
The second 60°, running to 120, complictcs the first angle or the
first side <nd runs out-the 10-year Cycle. The third 60°, or the
second. side, ends 15 years or 180°. It is very important beccuse we
neve the building half completed end must meet the strongest resist-
ance at this. point.’ The fourth 609, or the end of 20 years or 240
months, completes the third side. - We are now two-thirds around .the
building, a very strong voint which culminates end completes our
20-yeer Cycle. The fifth 60°, ‘or 500° point,  duys, weeks, or
months, completes 25 years, & repetition of the first 5 years, but
#t completes the fpurth side of our building and is a very important
engle. .The 6th 6Car 360 , completing the circle end ending 50 years

as meesured by our Time Factor, which runs 1° per month on aon angle of

45° completes the top. This is a cemplete cubc 2nd we begin over
again

Stidy.this in connéction with the Hexcgon Chert. It will help
you. , ;

he few fee be Le Le ft i_

no
86

=6=

is constructed, It is just the seme os constricting o building.
“pst the foundetion has to be laid and then the four sides have to
pe completed: and last, but not least of all, the top has to be put

-on. ‘The cube or hexagon proves exectly ‘the lew which Works because

of time and space in the market. .“then a building is put up it is
vuijt according to 2 square or hexagon. It has four walls or four
sides, 2 bottom and a top; therefore, it is a ‘cube,

In working out thé 20-year. Cycle in the stock market, the first
60°, or 5S years, from the beginning forms the bottom of the cube.
The second 60°, running to 120, complictcs the first angle or the
first side <nd runs out-the 10-year Cycle. The third 60°, or the
second. side, ends 15 years or 180°. It is very important beccuse we
neve the building half completed end must meet the strongest resist-
ance at this. point.’ The fourth 609, or the end of 20 years or 240
months, completes the third side. - We are now two-thirds around .the
building, a very strong voint which culminates end completes our
20-yeer Cycle. The fifth 60°, ‘or 500° point,  duys, weeks, or
months, completes 25 years, & repetition of the first 5 years, but
#t completes the fpurth side of our building and is a very important
engle. .The 6th 6Car 360 , completing the circle end ending 50 years

as meesured by our Time Factor, which runs 1° per month on aon angle of

45° completes the top. This is a cemplete cubc 2nd we begin over
again

Stidy.this in connéction with the Hexcgon Chert. It will help
you. , ;

he few fee be Le Le ft i_

no
#2 UC.

5-5/8, 7-1/2): 11-1/4, 15, 6-7/8, 22-1/2, 27-7/8, 30, 33-3/4, 37-1/2,
a4 a on 56-1/4, 60, 61-7/8, -67-1/2, 73-1/8, 75, 718-3/4,
-B2-1/2, 84-3/8, 90,, 9525/8, 101-1/4, 105, 106-7/8, 112-172, 118-1/8,
120, 123-3/4, 129-3/8, 135, 140-6/8, 146-1/4, 150, 152-7/8, 157-1/2,
163-1/8, 168-3/4, 174-3/8, 180, 185-5/8, 191-1/4,- 196-7/8, 202-1/2,
208-1/8, 210, 21373/4, 219-3/8, 225, °230-5/8, 236-1/4, 240, 241-7/8,
247-1/2, 253-1/8, 258-3/4, 264-3/8, 270, 275-5/8, 281-1/4, 286-7/8,
292-1/2, 298-1/8, 300,° 303-3/4, 309-3/8, 315, 320-5/8, 326-1/4, 330,
331-7/8, 3371/2, 343-1/8,° 348-3/4, 354-3/8,- 360, which completes the
circle.

These points are all made by a division of angles and are measure-
ments of one-half, one-third; one-fourth, one-eight, one-sixteenth, one-
thirty-second and -one-sixty-fourth,

Compare these- points. with your Master Twelve Chart, your Square of
Nine Chart, your-Hexagon Chart. and: your’ Najor Chart of 360°. You will see
how they,all confirm the importent angies and time factors.

The number."7" being. so important in determining the culmination in
weeks, deys, months and years, we must, divide the circle by 7 to. get the
important points; or.the one-seventh points in the circle, which are vital
and important angles.. . ;

_The first .one-seventh. of 360 equals §1-3/7 y the second equals
102-6/7,-the third. equals 154-2/7, the fourth equals 205-5/7, the fifth
equals 257-1/7,..the:sixth equals 308-4/7 and the seventh completes the-circle,
equalling 360 degrees, ‘days, weeks, months or years. If you divide each of
these points by 2,-you will also get other important and valunble angles which
will confirm and correspond to the other angles in the other charts.

One-seventh of a year or one~seventh of a circle shows why so- many
fast market movements-culminate in the 49th day or ‘the 52nd day and why the
‘7th week is so. very important in culminstions end elso the 7th month as well
as the 7th year. _

13 times 51-3/7 equals 77-1/8 and shows why the angles are so very
strong around that point and why the 77th dey, 77th weék and 77th month ere
so important for culminations,. ,

‘MASTER “360° CIRCLE CHART SQUARED

The Naster 360 Circle Chert when ‘squared is 90 x 90, ond contains
8,100 cells, zones or spaces. Therefore, the square of 360 will contain
32,400 spaces. This shows you why .a stock fluctuates up and dovm so meny
times over the seme territory, because it is working out the number of cells
or vibrations of each space in a squére. For example:- ,

1/8 of 90 equels 1,012+1/2
1/4 of 90 equals 2,025
1/2 of 90 esuanis 4,050
3/4 of 90 equals 6,075
1/3 of 90 equals 2,700
2/3 of 90 ecuals- 5,400

87
#3 UC...

The square of 360, or 560 times 360, equals 32,400.

1/4 af:,560 equals 8,100
1/3 of 360 equals 10,860
1/2 of 360 equals 16,200
2/3 of 360 equals 21,600
3/4 of 360 equals 24,300
7/8 of 360 equals 28,350 .

These points are very importent to use for volums of seles as well
as time and price measurements.

Suppose you want to know the. number of days required to fill or work
out the square of 90,. There are 365 whys in a year. 20 years will give you
7,300 days, and .in’ counting, the leap years will-run a little over this.
Therefore, about.22 years, 2 months and 10 days are required to work out

‘each--vibration in the square of 90."

THE SPIRAL’ CHART

The Spiral Chart represents the correct position, time and space of ©
anything that begins at zero. and, begins to move round and round. Jt shows
just exactly how the-numbers incrense as the spiral moves round and round,
and Why stocks move faster as they prow older, or swing s0 much more
rapidly.as the price reaches higher levels. At.center, beginning point or
zero, it requires 45° to represent. one point.* When the stock traveled séven

’ times nround from the center,’ it-then required seven points to strike a 45° -

angle. When it has traveled around the spiral twelve fimes, it will then
require-a space of ten points before striking a.45° angles It would also

“ean that the stock could move in one direction ten months without striking

anything to ceuse any very great reaction. On this chart; we have only shown

- the 45, .60, 90, 120, 135,280," 225,240, 270, 300, 315 and 360 degree angles:

‘This shows the division of the ¢ircle by 2, 4 and 8, and also shows the
one-third point ‘and the two-thirds point; being the vital and most important
angles, we place them so you can see how space or. time makes rapid fluctuations:

NEW YORK .STOCK EXCHANGE PERMANENT CHART.

_ This Chart is.a,square of 20, or 20 up and 20 over, making a total
of 400, which csn be used to -measure deys, weeks,*months or years, and to
‘determine when tops and bottoms will be made against strong angles, as
indicated on this Permanent.Charts.

.For example:- ‘The New York Stock Exchange was incorporeted May 17th,
1792, Therefore, we begin at "0" on May 17, 1792.° 1793 ends on 1, when the
Stock Exchange was 1 year old. 1812 will come out on 20;

1832 on 40 1882 on.100
1852 on 60 1912 on 120
1872 on 80 1932 on 140

Note that 139, or 1931,-strikes the 45° angle, running from 20 down,
end that this is in the 7th zone, or the 7th spece over, which indicates that
1931 is the ending of a dear campaign, and the starting of c bull market. But
se must watch out for o break around May and June, 193], when this engle is
#4 LC.
hit at the end of the 139th year.

You will notice that the numbers which divide the square into equal
parts, run across 10, 30, 50, 70, 90, 110, -etc., and that the year 1802 comes,
out on 10, the year 1822 on 30, the year 1842 on 50, the yenr 1862 on 70.
Note that the year 1861, when the Civil Yur broke out, was on the number 69,
which is a 45° angle. Then note that 1882 ended-in May on the 90° angle,
and at the 1/2 point, I80° angle, rvmning horizontally across.

" Again in 1902, it was at 110; the 1/2 point, and in 1903 end 1904,
hit the 45° angle.

Rote that the years 1920 and 1921 hit the 45° angle on No. 129 and
1922, the first year of the bull market, was at. 130 ot the 1/2 point.

Note that 1929 was on the 137th merber, or 137th month, and hit an
angie of 45°,-and that the year 1930 was at the ‘1/2 point on the 4th souere,
.& strong Resistence Point,. which indicated e sharp, severe decline,

Again, 138 is at the 1/2 point on the Master 12 Chart,

1933 will be.on 141, in the 8th Zone, and at the center or 1/2 point
of the 2nd quarter of the Square.of 20,

The years 1934 and 1935, ending: in Mey, will be on 142 and 143, -and

"2935 will come out on the 45° dngle-at the grand center in the 8th Zone ahd

at the 1/2 point of the 2nd aqme, going to 1/2 of the total square, which
will indicate a decline and bottom for sn advance to run up in 1936, with

1937 striking at 145, which is 1/4th of the column on.the way up in the square.

; If you will study the weeks, months, as well es the years, and apply
them to these important points end eangies, you will see how they have
‘determined the important .tops and bottoms in the past campaigns,

UNITED STATES STEEL NAME CHART

The name; United States Steel, contains 17 letters, Therefore, to
make up a Permanent Square for United Ststes Steel according to its neme,
will require 17 x 17, or a square of 289. Therefore, 17, which is reelly
2 times the lowest price-at which Steel ever sold is an important point,

The prices M4, 51, 68, 85, 102, 119, 136, 153, 170, 187, 204, 221,
238, 255, 272 are all important because they strike important vibrations on
the nome and angles of U. S,° Steel. : :

The basic number. or low point, for example 9, the lowest digit on
U. S. Steel, and its vibrations according to its name, 11 cause slight
.varietions at times from other stocks, because each stock works according.
to its cwn base, beginning point, numbers and name.

U. S. Steel works good to the neturel angles end Hester Chert,
because its digit is 9 ond comes out on exact 9 vibrations all the way

throush, finishing at 261, which was 28 nines from its beginning point, or
lowest level.

89

L_ 1

L_ i

L_! LL!

90

#5 uC

4 study of all these various tebles will help: you to understand
Resistance Levels.

UNITED STATES PERMANENT MASTER CHART

We use the squeré of 7 for the United States because the name of
America contains 7 letters, and this square is 49, @ very importent and

fatal number.
We begin the United States Chart on October 12th, 1492, Make up

"these Squares of 7 and put on the years. You will note How this indicetes

the panic years in the United States and the years of prosperity,

You cen also make up a square‘of 21-x 21, which is the number of
letters in the name.of United States of America. These angles and im-
portant points will -all come out about the same as when we use Amerita,
because three times 7 is 21.° However, you will get some. stronger angles
and more important-points if you make, up the square of 21 x 21, which will
run out to 441, with the 1/2. point at-220-1/2.

; The more. you study-these Permanent Charts, the more you will
appreciate their greet value, and.will see that numbers do determine every-
thing in the future,.and that geometricai angles and mathemetical points
measure every Resistance Level, time, price, space or yolume, a

7 My Pe See (ds
ee Eo

| ; EES hy
Nene gall ee
aie
\ Wee ee
| TS ROEM, i,

\

RRS
Kee 2g :

3
307

LC AMD Tol CeaRt
FORK GRAINS.
oY wWO,SANN

91

To ee e
wi

SD ay

ee oe

Imo or an es es? SS | eC
\O
lo — etm ee ok

MASTER 360° CHAQT

=
wv
mais
90°

PM

1

12M

| an oe | — “1 ,—i oy
' \

x
a t =
xr 4 © eof os
i; AD, Gas a)
° wn = c
‘SS Bs CE ROADS ae a
7 E.. ee Y ane = DH? NS &
It y () Cat) A) °
oy TNS ODA ONS RoS sa
= CAA Ly 2 lan & Vv a
Pa Fa. Cae On = ALLA Ce
h Soe BON BOS alm 4 4) PRO,
0 /RSOPLEY B93 Tee OTT vs Foe WAN
e Eo Se, SAO < * ~ ES NAN Nay x
S hh LES VSO AUST ATF RT ON OROGD, 0
ra 9 S759 SKIP S> QO AY OLePA Pe? °
~ KEES & SOx: SOIR mfae Yo MEACOAN -
a 95 /. Li J
=f5%6 sso) Sok Re NSS CREE y ry Prone S
° is v. ;
|, RegPs. . g Sone ae SIAL CANA OW
ie PERS KORO SNR e, ORO AP- GOxee a
ole, SSE, On wlan ay =
iy ay Pe Ke: Ae S =\Rae> CON UaS Wee ented OG) .
z egooZfog 89 obolSees) So), VER OLIN ECA NS, 710\ 84 \ Kh
Ooze; a 5 By ae Eps Rn Nee “i
lo rhe e cy) E> Z ro} 10 oN ot > w B13\ |.
ss/8rvjese bp2| 96 201 / PK Hors ANCNG Coq \88"\ | 2
yysloe 1/9 e) [8 ITSe 5 93ySolve2! Viz
VPyQgs zip eye 3 225\39 914 re
91 au E39 rb at WT Th sS z 9 17 LeU ee S25l64 |
sista las ze (17124 TTR!
903 “\so7\39 | 30%2 13 159 \ Sone £]9b]z8 loci ogi Fo, are ®
go" 6) 51A9 387, a5 O3XKV bs Zp) |z0z Cle py Oss 24. 5
\g719\732y@0 al CEs o Ser tz oars Zask ery 9
b\pste ea EAC EN M\WAON ORR o- Pra Gea 1/23 / Pees BeR ze, Gyaz
ar cans? NPAC OA WES WT SUS 2 Psa edlecgl| =
re, 699 2 x Lod Vv . Was Ls Os oF {87 Oy 56 [RR br be es
s>'\e® $5? aN ve PVE 0S OA, Aoey ig zo)
=\o'9 aG CD?’ SYA Sey Ory Ae hi 9/2,
<\B oRcSxee Se 2 Ch SL ¥NS23 SOs, > +/925, 4 fe c
\Pxtt EWCNG CY mike Sr mas S Ay. EE, SG 2/864]
OR" Re 2) Moly 2 OMS iS Ho 9's] =
IVA SOS 2 SAO OLR eeXe> J] <
RN 3 4\ ROSIE SGI Samar to. ey vf
49 We a) 5 Cy
Fy Cee ae ov “A : ae SR mT oe % . Xen. oreo *y Pe y, 3
= 9 ~
ay Re he oy oe Bem SVS, oY ei! INS 5f0/ ™
™ A) a) SoSH S G MONMoite/
G9 OES AS ale Ae & SOS AN 2
g - EX WEG Dato 6 DHS evar Deke Me %97 =
A Py mene Halo dp He, ~F
MAS FOS ssa s 2% S % 7
© oon 3 Par ayes ooo c z
m  .SSe as vd be Le Fr CG =
. : s . HS 5 w ne hs BS ° ¥
=) 38 si Za82 a °S
“A = Sic Laid 6
: x iS ;
2 3 4

93
Pa

——
3
5 ; 5 5 gi
* ‘3 2
x & Vx 3 5) a / £ ;
Zz % \¢\ 3 3 3) 2] 2 < :
“wa 2 y % 2 = ra . © ws 2
~ % e é. S fe = E <3
i A NIN 3 = $ - = $3¢
%, 4 Ce c\5 & 3 Sy 2 S 3 3
— ~~
ty % 4 FKITS ea Ll Fi ge
%, ‘%, , 3 %, z ° HN Pegs
th, eX + N PV ONGS 2885
ty, %, y. ss r Bt | = ? ? ) me ys B?
yy ah\ %, ,, = —y S = _ » zg s™
% ie “so y Q NI * ¢
A a7X < S
Sirs kre 7
Bo) a cePrezhos, Py a)
oa (it iaas Seechea6s aioeny aT, <
’ Ptislozzp 65 )S0n2K als loyiy aN Son ant quasyee?
ett sloson ay v1 169?
obaclcce TE?) ° Vi asst
esaloysibsreloeri ae m or Pit Ty
HOLet rT ;
5124.4295)cens|ecss}gggs|ans,297A c0ugzzssiuassy 2811 = craafi aie eoente RHO NE as1936
a Pe bps . : ; '
Toad peau seo[ ise LLL ED raushyaas ng and ogatsy 291 |
; Tadiasadrreoi2ee\ Tastee
NF Cre (a hs baa a a8 { loreiforei ac —_
$506 —T reso 754! ROE E ecre eschst ik o, 8
mer C= - ase ee Fees “seinnliins,, seweeclosty ny
ee ey rH I ry a la
sos 5 se 233028 aw SS AS ONG heey pEsey Py Wika Msthoushs, !
“n> 190" oe 4 eke Star Wie rises
SE a PRY f tee WAS Lox helena “Stren Htc byh SB rey Koeg =
Pry Ss}: \ 3 ah yx OND ay cake teh,
ey" OX OST RON ” ty
. 4 300 é an! aS oO My > Or tg, eee S66)
Ray, EO OAS WOKEN TRY, Ney
st? R av’ oN ww SY x > a ox te a tthe,
fi : %
‘i wt eS . aX ON, o> te Yop 7 :
MEPEG NOG ONS s ai
e wy AWA: RONG * a
we s PLAS t\NtNG ty
“oN a : N 3 e S/ AS GN % Sy
ae\ w 5 eNGN & ) ’ 6
/ - ,
5 ot iS ¥ + 3 J % ity,
iy & 3 = C z, eg
: %\%,
< N yi ey ** \*% MWe,
= SSCP FKE is e\%\% :
> ‘ Q wd ra t\Aaxs a ty,
a \) ow « % v WS
Lid S > 3 >. he
ray * s 3 3 te f \
a - = z 2 B-\-tX = f, %,
Ea NS SKIPS = E- t\A\ 4 y
z * < = a aA~ %,
PASTS rt = mm \ “np
Cy a a x «
wn? / = / cs s *S
13 ? %
& 4 a
& 2
. ” oy)
ak

2 cere — é

—"

|
— a
— |
li
tH

TAM 7
3
APRAS Ge
ie g bd ea
cant
at

a

A
BS

se
re eiseae
a ae
a ioe ne
C8

eee

arm
3 10"
aris
a =
> SS =
san XA SS 5
33°Se) : a
f8.> 3 iy Ss rs
= J Ov. B
6: =
~ .
> L710 pst
< a 240
33°

ie (Be Sees’ ees’ Ea’ Ca|' L. I ] i i r

+

3
|

|
%
os fo| mA Lf
WS i . fr] | |

pel dor bso £5.14 Fs yarsasé lize tor
2T |709 7 | 73] 202 | Dre I

7 Ti

iS
FA2al7AKY f= F520 P2827 S07 F358 |7. Wwe 5
eel on7 row [err Pere [ee fern ih- (Ee | ve 3

ASTe [Pxar-v2y2 [Fx w|F 376] F325 Pan tesa fap Fath Proctur2 Vs
1790] eexC eee | sea] cra] eee | cor | ere] kez) ape) ers | ze | 967

Si hey: 8) 708d | Fogs | Wew | 7416 | 7727 | 779.0) 7/62 WIE W777 6 PF
649 |SeX) ov [oer [ure | Ore | ope | a s0\l og [ery | oor | 999

4 Sey] ¥25L705% Pe 600d Goralgeas task |Goyf pose
9 Ms

4 saint: & EP) GEE 6 FO Gi9s 6304 Ob a 1
766 | set [ase 97) 49 |ase | ore | ow © | oy) oe eal ey mel 2 Bake FP Ait; [Se gels :
i
Ske [FX [oye] So} HQ | 4H [WISE UTES VFO) F821 SOY | Sore Say Sal S126 Si A Sth SAAS ¢|OU=| Ga [Ph om] :
[ax | 687 [57 | args | ea] wo | otf wer | we oer] we] ae w26l/va7| war} aay] we | var i jae i
~ AUgY | os at ‘fe er oo ions eee qa es eA BP |se200} 4ala pasa pape fSi He) tou pisa.) — —F-" | *
i arb [Sa | ape | wre | aardloas | axe | a27 | 220 ore [a | def | 307 | ase| ase | ora was |se fers | za0
FSTc| F220 [7or0 [5916 [etl 3996 ea B192)32eu [72/6] 32\§) 2 24d 225213264 3274 F255) 2300] 3372 |732u]3h.343 2u8| 2 369 D379.
1793 | oe 96°] a7 | eg] on ais [ner | 268 | a49\\ are | azz | a72 1372 | 270 | ape} az7t fare [ore | ary | ato) ot [Lea
a: om Nace oot |Soo4 wk guligex aver javb-|ar72 | 9121 he2012592 |2 seiz6selaxt 2OR | ahew 12676 2kgk [auFe)
"RNG sae | wet 92 | wer | aan | one aor ast [ 07 n| aor an | an aa jae | are pap | ave | ary | oer 9 | ore
ee Palle 96 St 9a |VrEul 37a |3/5b)2q96| ea
«They | $0 fo we [az [ane Pagy [a | Na Loa oe et et | = fae ee |e | ae

dP | realty | S82] Wi 73) 3900 | Sant] 37303

3

au) 1926) 12y| the Hera very 296 | cvor ef20l pf2a [rove \7956 [1968 [2b yo] Fer
at | ist Hats a“
as

dazajram [sage gor [a0 |/232 [730451336 pay |73¢0| 7392
i wer | ret tf ian lane wala le wr | #6

279) aes | Sra | ate 430 | ata | aa
~ Aub 772 Poza lsset [ure | Sve] 3732 [ayia
pvt 651 | ote | #9 | wor] 929 [ase | a0
“hiudb|evee £760 |
)78T) ase} o2-
5 UME Rery eet

3:

2

tage 440 | FSR | Flat | P76) £F8) Geo) 912.) 924) 9,
wr | tN) ve | we 73] 921 rel ae ve | 77 Ar

o
"7
774
E o a 2
ea | 9k ey IDF 9a S76 [sar } yng Ge8| Hav) sao | Al) 370)
aot} 327 | sho | 200 od > | 7) ae %
9b
Pe
Sa

13:

qZ

ot} ve ae al wa] awl wt
Wrst | 32ay | 3/09 pars Pi god yop 252) 204] Z76| aff] 76
a Donl op | AI aol ar | a2 Poe You | ar 07
fale a SPAY | PLoS
TaN 2 |GSy

rele Eagle eels te TN

aeN

2702

ef
TERE BIE

%
f

JO 54 S56) ame 622
iat | an faut

jaxey pret [22yy'222 27 Fe] FSGe cig 29 | 5
‘ges at | om | ae a | 1 297 | at
29 2952 129,292 | 2906 Eager [228 Palzeso REE LF ss 1253.2 [220 Ne? |asy76 | yuyo) =:
aer | 207 | seb | ovr jam | ovz | ava} aw} ave | 497 | 225) 237 | aX | oar; de! aye | an
I7F0 37 CE |376C|3720/)9 722 pyre [FoF 1 Fo] 2b by fas7a | See 13eu8|¥l7b)IGigd Bhs2idboo PAYT | sya
a | ad | Qu [ave | gog | oor | aor | sek

Jor
}/G20 Noor Beye WSF. Bo > ,
Ae bey [ya S76 W584 hys73 Y (oe 36 SOX $72 eset }ar76;

Ura-S]? FP See 9] BURR als BLY:

daz Yat | oer] ore | ass ars | ow | 320 at | e77\ a7 | oe few | 279 |
. — 1
cael wow hea 77 FASS GO STH] S336 |SSuus$32 BS20| SsoN WK 3
4 | Gze) why) wer | vez | wee | wer ieee t) wes | ota) yer | bo wy —“
O70 oF 5656166 bd72 bbb 016 ety 662616634 b02 Cleo 57, CET
57 | 439 | bry | ree | earl ore 993 | esal or7| fee | oxy 40) Bud
' rig a tase & Roe | 7848 [7638 Pi |l77/a Peo H 787 v7
H fen Ye self ese . Ged 85 | 665 | esal] 4 | dm bcs Ae? i ee
1

70 | 760 | 7897 rer | He | 749 | 7a | Ze\iz | 709 tre

¥i32 9120 Prot = oft Yo7a Poko Foul Yost Pray “feo pYaP irre
ut ys
a

BR
a
op Vy
s

|
WN
—_

; Master Prize Time Chart
om Corfen, Goffe, Cossa,Mor,

sat Grains

96
aes ‘2 HAS SER. leper! 2 i>

i 7 és sia ibaa
1 i ;
|

MAY S22. BEAMS }
PROE a Azade *

ae eee | i

a — oe a ee : : = — ; - rt =e = F
i443 442/44 440/499 436/437 436 L435 db4|433\432143) 430/429 428 427-426 1425 4h

367!366 3651364 3631362 36/ scdake 358/357) 356,355 |354.353| 352135) |3
oR wee,

3¢9|3091299 298,297 296295'2941293|292| 291 '290,269 268 | 267: 286|265'284|349| 472

1
'
‘ : cae) Wee
ai | : oh an Vee
]
!

370|301 0 2391238 237,236 235|234l243|232.231 1230,229|228 227;276|263

i e Y

' 8 a

{371 |302| 241 ee 187 186: 85° Weal ies 12 | 181 1801179 '/78|177: 126 225|282

wot |

372|303 242 189 |} 1431/42. 14] } 1140 139 138: /37|/36 /35 |/ 4.\ 175} 224\281
[470 12> |

oy LES i
373|304|243 |/90|/45 708 107-106 ' 105 194 103;102|/01 ‘J 6 133|/741223|280

1374|305|2441/9/ 1/46 ae 79 i 78 | 17 76:75 \74 99 | /32|/73 |222|279

375|306| 245|/92|/47\//0 | 8 — 58 57: Slo 73 | 98|/3!|172|22!|278
. Fy oo oo a oY cones fos ° ee es es —
376|307|246| 193\/48) 1/1

55 | 72 | 97|/30|/7/ | 22G277|342 | 4/5

fa7a}sasizan yadiAatziz| | sal wl eali20|s70l2 s3\z76|3allara
* |378|309|248 | 195|/50 | 1/3 | 84 |@3 |. 1 Se 53 | 70| 95|/26\/e9 |2/8 |\275 |340)4/3

NS

:1379|3/0 |2g9|196|/5/ |/14 | 85 ies ae 67 &8 |69|94 |/27|/68|\2/7 |274|339|4/2

v = = = . iat 7 7 fe ee ee
380/31) |250|/97\/52 |//5 EG 187. | 88 49 20.9! | 93 | 126 |/67 \2/6 | 273|398} 4}

| La

i

381|310|25) \/98\/53 ye 7 119 \/20| 121° /22| 123 24 | /25|/66 2/5 \272 |337|410

ee ed eee eee ry

a 313|252|/99| J 4.155) /56: /571158\1p9 /60: f6/ 162163 18 | /65\2/4 | 27/ |F36\.409

= !

\ © = at
383|3/4|253 306) 201 ;202 203 1204'205 206 |207:2081209.2/0 | 21! ‘AN | 213|270|335 |408

; cree] ee eee PE

ai : : i. i | =e IE
3E4\ 315 254 255 |256 257 1258 :259 :260|Z6/ |262\263|264' '265 ee 334\407
33/

F : ’ i og u 1 1

+] 385 61317 .3/8 | 3/9 320132/'322|323)324 325 326'327 | 9261379:330 BI.

32 | 33|406
"| 366, 387'388 '3691390,391 |392'393'394|395;396'597|398:399;40040/ ane
\ we

a a

—

l
;
|—
i
L.
A
k
4
L
b
l
i
L
L
L
y
L
L
L

obs 74s Lc ¢ouos

K | gph a lber2.|/ |) 3G © | | : |
: ; i
a | A | | us | Ls :
%y 30H Gale 557° KD, a 9 Gye qyie 5s 4570 1 eR EG _| at Le. | /
Gor vie w ‘ 6
if lee ‘Soe SALE AK Re if isis sl Terma ofoele 4 APH lrmlagto_

‘sorb &h COE |e 4b hes Ge,5™ ade $90 Gv Be s37¢ bye

Ase bo 658 08S 0 &So 558 BE C;:

e

YeTHSIIT ix D497

1 70 741017 auTSFepSG VSS 17 CD7EE

EOI

I ibe Like ogo tanareu

Ligo bete digo Lire odeel SPelibe Life 7q¢zerr7eh0

9777 87547 OVE 7k
7140 hte Br307 Peo TPA:

Melee Gofelorso isi) ¢0 bao Laue rrleee

330 lexpogssoiutoGnst bine Dol potsrelt oy

Se X90 5584 ste SH 0 SlyeStye Te]

a nc a

sito Sif F776 ag, [a

ei? rs © Lyffisubo se Lo Say isisosstao si

FAAS, ‘on $053)
ROR S10 BH STAN SHG) |

| 42? seo zd

yee yo Khe ysjott~ 46

soulto in7to Ie }Ho ier y4oo [igo Hell

Wer aIeo aH

rehab aS al

en ae ag

ees

} i \ Pose

BSH* S870 3Ge0 3G0 3440347 05420 794 bf 4 Reabes tye 374

Get.

SHIH a

3
: .

|
. {Aebossebi2ed/s0 Lagoa ojaayqpard Be 830i 9he585¢ 3H
| | RON oo apz0a7fe 9754 Pe MSP OA > D5L0 2440 DI70 Bebe |

esl

i
:

‘
oe Pere nes ee Coe
:

oe

'

| nia Bains 274 Ae* Dixse Db

DUS oR} IDR 0 IONE ¢

i \WN \ Gener 229 g07 oD 1004 De» 9150p Pe M2077 33¢

felesorrsaizHe (77011 iol] tho MGA AIEEE,

| cpl elifeo gro: Iseu

eo} 136. ISG01G%0 leSt

‘ ae =

QTR” 1ee| a4 1954139 [Srfokeps. ‘é

‘io G50 Iqfls 1d Jdge 110 ns

we fe jsue0

74 Goo 930,

| Sb Gbe ©

rae ois

—

yell ee GO, 9,

.
on eee ee ee

pee

erie

a ee er rr
hh
‘

He!

T
t

!
4

SM

T
!

ebiitady

ao

“Thi
“tt
4

Sea

eee

open: f20u}

ces

PS SrSS Es
fopid tip: eda ii Ria oie ee
=fezilreg: Cir)
pi Gee aoe thr wen. Ue

99
47a He itt thes - ! dts
Bas festtresss eh fale ace HH rll HEH HAE
HIE HI pS (NE frit the Sua HASH
4 yy POar rE Te (th rae aU th ns ee ih
Tet hoit]t L[ ET soee{ teeny seve, toed eae bye Biers te ea un ania SUT ttS WER" Et age i i
be el Tat tod elypeselsacd ie ie ot i pee ye > Tiedt -y coil ]
HTH ile eee eeteaabearee toa eo pero ere acalbidcat bl stil
Sebi tl stax. persadcs te hss 51a yusiS sus sOnsasJy Fu bd jess paatdo s
aseueet iaekstorey 973,97" Eors Brie irtis rizr, erryé 73) os ae boa recinans rari Re pate oe cee tiie
= i aiesy dng, cathe pe ‘aoe’ ngelaycha ses are aes ane ara areas azn gtesyse
= ioe yer | 3 973 PT pe BS Vy fen sCo_ | hey ray eet tay | £5 | 2ES dav 7 18) er | Fam 9 [07 ‘2
= rroze' Me pcp So TRS y 7 WTSI RIBS us
Hatttedtistis -— peotes siti ree nee ea soar 3419 are are 3S game ie i
=s5 HEH Paslode ; Sherr rae fooseste = ay be Soh rs st
' : lial TR fed Feral ig TIC ele tey sz zi bie sie 1 9a4 7a mie te tT Es
Bogs 1b EEC wer ca SP 17708:
+ tt + ett ate F761 trey say pours TEE ise Oho PERE, apts ura be ay ks ‘Fae (pe 746 -
Sen nachassiasl fora tiny oe oa Fast raid ah =
wes sao baa iss dase Press| 753 5 750c) we n 1
; StH Beacon | Fra} toe | Fh a7 eaieeie "end ae ae i Aegean cA Tei} tele pica ane
: oe = af Boal Lae
: Fe s04 eae Vut Te ote 7 sre FSO"Th 1b usho'k aS LusD’ ao caoses: eee 6345-6320: a F222 STS He
— =tH4— S208 5 4e79- To; 770) 87a: War Fi sea ate BESS Be er ier ee dhe rete fesod 246: PEO OPES 330 IA qt. peeh:
Hat es rr vere err deca tupstrousiece rach ay Peed ps ns rlnsvalppaz =: a t
| oF I bed eel et ary. 7 WPatctittct rag |e alee pibtithetie ade: rane esses iad pclae amainach iii li
on Uy rssovis rolnreesai' eaissstes A510 Biko’ May ‘ Pend APS, i:
anus Sere T A ioe te Duis ven! tr dp Was atts agg nace eat arg cats J “er fe a a us tne H : r | ee:
Ha etaagdicn Lena at alae began edigeincbeer incarnate BHT Hi:
- bY + ones gas, sora ¥4t Edi ieee od Lid Cag heater yaw fae brig tbeaod Hee clon rites Ney a Eon ool =;
: STEHT o ri ro"rure ase aru /1eer [0286 71076 FO Cae ag re eee = Foz1 starts Ser 6 THAT roe 9 abs ha! —
ttt saadyropes Tat Fibs a7 st. earte segertg te) pipes mej uc. iy Bat be ey ber; it Use ate UA tit UN te aes tee hie +

fered ees at nee Fpitgl IE TCE ipipdetededed ripest ett G

Ty Be 7 aod had re} eae Mb7y
Ghogpeerg sy 766 121704 fe 4o 10-5 IO. Ifo 3 20, bas SY oe, SUS 15.0" “Bubs i =a
reerbs 91 CTE tte ips 78 (er; Fite ts Ets era} v7 ee arial 103 4 et tn: aay at er 1a em RA Tete it rei Sat WE
eqs oro

ar ali aaa ai ena aa

iret tre ote ity ty ty The S473 MS0 Hh ae SE. TE Hea hit oepy i bifo Se 72 Beko 1725 tres ee. ras sures, os

—— - oe - + +
ra ae 970 I ged fa isriOrrae +

Be

ryt d ei: fhe. 7 6 O40 5 270. ok. et , me WT. ey cs er.

a ath risviaeiocncter et rae ciete sven faa ela a ed votre? El

112370 74.2020 /3330 1TS0es ek Tor C630 Taos pat MP Te TSE NOT,
+ 13 tres [oe We | 7x Fem eT) 1925777 ms ee eta a ied Pasy aie ae "ae ade BF wT fas gar af .

rrepize :
Fe cheap alga re a apna ely Te ere eae Lea eeeeeaae iy ade reenter isl Eiger
Wa

Ded, ba UM, Shbo 3s bs Tess: +
a i a ak AP | ie ee ee ea
: 7s Goes! 35 sal gssl os graoss!z aslizas|/: pitt pealaeale Lruzs! Ar bzecslyaco| wreslenecl ened [72d sasslgttoly, efter

SBR asp ar aa FS fon PE aT ES pacar ated Cilae ied eat esa pearl [BP rye phates estat io eras

Ho 30 6 Soe'ngt Pt 2 9 ge apne ante te dame Soup 7 we 1230 B10 14s" ste 255,270 2 L855, 3 4P: pie sees 7 Sy aro" Saas Gove TIES 12 Petite ps

gebd rt 30'
a at as ete 6 es ws, 73+ 52 9a
er) esol eter atone lags opus ous anes ass agslogs

HT Sirsesk 5s 9:50" 99d petarcioase waslse 1s soleazsty7e lrusl¥ek bead gee -
fil 3:33] re ae aa ca ae aa a (PS aE Hace ae ear Perec ete tea gaa Tpit
iii a ea ee aaa ae Ing gute rep oe te ir a oe ca a ee a ie Sb amar ate es:
pe ereesine oe re ee hee cet ieee eee
VTTIITHITIiIfedeed bea eli sett tia laa eg oe ai ani
TH a ew Ase Sas Ui ake See tse tse’ AE A are: oh een i a a Ya eg a a 4 at
ff i ecae ssetapeesoes tae ae legal aeele aoe laepe re arn ar ae tg az lar aad So a ey fa =

bf os GPS GARE = = rt de et bee chee Pete tyeerter-teorg TsO ale ola ab fa Teast
Hi Hiuish ge laae 1916 pare Tels toed 3733! d790 cond cone wassluase! woadupre! Stes 7orols3¢sl aru
teak ead calla fee ee peter eter eter Te ecg rad ta eee
SIS ee i 1 LE PR aS ET
wa ea iS LE See REE plersy Sarin rr aaee alae ae at
=A err | maaahie ‘exec avaslor: al mbps peal yaa spe pss
BSS Pe Ty ae ae aoe SPS ee AT | So Ts PY ii!

A ee ee Ss a ys a a a Or a a ie MA OE Ta

Siete See [ \ elie aT ae
(aS oe arr ieembgselanele, Ate, saa, 4 ond ned tese toes lips raga eal tail ‘K rarer sh 923 Pal oT ut

ppne ee teak lore OR gee ne OF fe te NBR T2SS UE WES USP EE RL ILS A. Leyte Se Be rq: fat aoe

SF (colle tispliglbalid keel atotilheOabuli Seb ar era

Kis PS0TS 18520 12000 FAS FI FoF (wkd $3033 MMOS $2420 LA19S 1USO VIN 1318 0 IES: 71225 AO se LL —
Hist White - goo tee “tar” Pea" Fot pou Fas “Wie ter ‘dot bey: Pm bu tee BB te tS we Oa Foe eat Zak TH

= = seresnaes ascland| aie peslger ae etal peal ated eal aad need aed a) ee SF Togedaneelng

Foe | Pe) Ver, PH, Ba, 14 | Way way wy oad | TA,
Fd 13723 19>%0 f: se,
oa gre IAS bine rr, dere ro

rer

+

it
rt

=e }-—|——F-- er la

Ep fabled |

tit

nes

vee] tat} —e]

yes cee

$5dde" (S313 1 tL8 9 IDE ASD edgar
sosaafoas, 0 Fo seat ort “aay

1h, 400, toS 166

: aS oye 3
i atetel a the ‘mt ycli: patios el a fe olan
Sef E [eae pe day eed wag, Sets | wer] 2d | at | i395 eo! MY 2D had
—— peo tea ithe A pesonrt IMAGO 14 10F (7 Tig FAS 18730 MS Artes Aton

= fet are fall > On rs vied SEG | Pat HVT 1290, St, at ate etait
Tae

wa oo 437, sere
-Y iste tse 9204 S135 062.50

Famed fe

yap -| er]

reat

155)

=

TH
areas
Pg bes

ora s
ra
Dated ee

St

vee | pepe l— 4 -—

hee sy

“TT

100
ee ee ee

Oo
sata |

Mars CAG 7

ay rhe i
3 99-4 995596997 996999 1000 1001 03 1004 105 1006 1007 1008 ooo foro 101) 1012 1013 1014 1015 1 1018 1019 10201021 1022 1025 1034 1
s92\esy e72 673 74 B75 878 E18 § 060 881 B62 683 £84 B85|b86 [B87 G86 e50 690 B91 B92 HO¥BGA EAS E96 B97 B98 26 900 gat hore
991]870\?s7 158 750 169761 762 763 764 165 166 167 768 160 770|771 |172 173 774 775 716 777 778 719 160 1882 783 184 7
990/869 75608 652653 654655656 esteos 659 669 steer! 672 673 674 673816 674\796
989868 755|650353 554 555 556557 558 SiS 560 561 562 563 564|565/560567 568569 570 A572 573 574 515 576 571 %68|787

988] 867] 1544640/5521483 464 465 4665457 4A6B\469 470 471 4172 473}474 |475 476 477 478 479/480 481 2 483 484 4 578/679) 88
987/664 7453) 648/551 462 383 384 385 346387 388 389 3901301 92 393 394395 396 397 398300 4 468 519;660

sone| 254885752 |647)550]401 308 309 310 311 12 333% 315|3 s16 B17 3 g20fi2i 322 323 3243 14871580 681/790
i
saben! 6 4 i) 3
ito] 864751 [04 7 242 243 244 2hp 246 247 248|249 P50 251 252 263 254255 256287 P26 1403 bine 71
48

Anas
a aan
tar

of4ledsre0|64sls4e sels 76|305}240 185 186\87 188 183|190}191 192 193494 195 198 ef feseB27 z
83)/862|r49]642f542 |a58]3 77/394 |290p82 [733 134 135 196 137 138]139]140 141 142 143 144 yaS|s9ales9 P2e|405|490 jeeairos
982|661|148|643/546|457 sledehiar|isz[dx 92 93\e4 95]96|97 98/99 100 yo has jioolaeo 29 61 |sedeeshoa
981 |860}747|6421545|456|375 180]131/90/3¢ 58 Se 60]61|62 G8 64 65 |102|147 |200|26rK30}407 Lozkest e795
980|859|146|¢/41)524 1455/3724 ‘lesel 1 7Shsaleo 56 )3q 32\33|34|35/36 97] 66|103|467201 pE2b41 408|493|s86'88y|796
979]858 745,64015431454|373 14001235|178| 129 eatsalso N15 [16 3 67104 go eoeeeskss l494'587'684707
978|857| 144 |639|s.4z 1453)372 k90|234|177|128|87 154/29 pals \ 4 8/39] 68 |105]150 203 |26.4533 410 495I5se €a9}798
97 [856|143 (638|541 [452[571 |2gl2aa|I76[127|/86|53/26|11| 2] 1 [6 |19|40|69]106 161 eo4)zesp34h 11 [496|ses:ca0}799
76 |a5e} 742 fo97|540 451 370 p97}e32}175) 26/85/52 ezbeys 18 Ys feels | 70|107|152 pospeebs5}412|497 |s00!601| 800
75|e84 741 hoe}saojasojzeo}4oe 231 174 [125]84 15+ ]26 2A les 42 ps woshss 206267 536/413 14981591 |692)801
974|853|740|435|598]449)368!2¥s|230|173 ar]@3|50|45 48/47 [46 |a5\a4 AQ|72 iosfteajzo7| 337 }4 14 1499|892

€k =

B38

ee
973|882)739|644|537]448|367|29 172 }123/8218¢ 80 7p 78 77|76 *6 74 NOhss zosPealss8 15 |[500]s 103 J920 045

972|851|738|693)536/447|26¢|203/2ea)171 hr22|yz2f 120 119/16 117116 iis 114\113 112 Wy hsePo9k75ps9 24 }695\g 041021
971 |850|797/6321596|446|365}292/227h70|\66 168 167 166 165 164]163h6z 161 180 159 158 z\219271 [540 |417 [502 s\o22
p36|631|s3Ness|364)201|226}22200 223 222821 220 219 [16 fa17 216 218\¢14 213 21 721341 418|503 7Boelo23

135]630|533\444|363 288287 2862 284283 282{ea1 [280279 278 2Y7 276275 274 2%3|342 4 19 |54.4]5971698|507 [924/540] r=
ach
734]629|532}443[3qzi361 360359 356 357 54353}352/351 350 40347 3.46 345 344 50 feos 9 zh1050)

ke 53114421441 439438 437 43% 435 434 433 4321431 430 429 426 427 4X6 425 424 423 4 a] 700 ‘SZ2G 1051
73.

621|530|526 526 527 S2a525 524523522 521 520 519 [516/517 516 515514 513\812 S11 546 509508 387 ps0] 701 40 |oz7hose
+
731 $ 624623 622621 E206 E18 617 B16 GI 614 [613 b12 B11 610 609 608 Ehy Coe 605 604 603 602 11 Jozehoss

173017, 7a 727 726 125124 123 fee T2t 716 717)716 ms 74 Usee 7 110 \709 708 707 706 105,764 12 929/054

{ 840.839 e38437 836 635 &yA B33 832 831 830 829 828/827 |826825 B24 823 B22 £21 CYO BID BIB B17 Hi6 B15 BU BY |o30hI055
962 |961 960 959 958 957 95885 954653 952951 950 949 948 947|946/945 944 943 942 941 940 938038 936 935 934 933 932 931 H056|

fest

sot

968

967

S66
963

964

£558.55 3\5 3

963

reas [19H 1088 1087 1086 1085 1084 1083 10Br opt r0R0 1079 1018 YT 1076 1075 1074 ]1073 ho7Z 1071 1070 1069 1068 1067 se T0¢5 1064 1063 1062 1061 1060 1059 1058 RAT] aes
ant Tears pew = Nee yee.
re qoeen per ur

aah? ae”
102

i
tam

oD

}960868755 030i 3.554 55> $56557 $56529 509 961 907 563 s6zlses

east
aa?

MASTER Time
a, RR SAME- 0%

ee

warit
mae
- -"

CARS CHARI
7p PPorz = Porn7!

deste *

rete ,
one

902" Ay on 873 874 875 on gor'tssigra toc $9: 962 €8) 864 86> sd

. ri ‘ ;
uw 4 -
—j- 7 The
R 904 995990907 908 909 Co req sorte) 1004 1009 1006 WOT Ee 1010 101) 8012 OND 10m 1015 resort 1018 (019 1070107) (03% ted 1O% sous :

(867 668 S80 $90 BDI 392 soyens 295 ¢: €96 897 358899 300 991» noLbi

1
ioor'arGlryy 156 180 169-461 762 203 784 264 166 2G7 71¢0 100 ne

172 173 174.979 276 177 fs 219100 yaa 782 784 783 toca, seo

sols dvd O41 6 sax€s0 ens ssa sve en?gnassgee-ter 3z 663/664]

6656 669 e10/611 672 673 6S 679836 grijrasi seniors,

60567 568569 9 $73 574 515 576 mer 904.029:

—
3264465 250461 268.489 470 +71 472 alin! [172 470 477 278 479/180, iy age 409 464 309/978:619h 68 ‘903 “ooo!

a ro |
expedlooy 308 309910 311912 DIT 915:

iNa
stay 987 333 De4 282 386987 3002399 390 ps1 5o2 393 304 305396 agi oeaen Te sar fies 529: “6t0:1851900 10211.
317 ale s9, 22992122 379 2 i

—
frolace z

242 243 pad 24d 240207 ee 251 252 2a aes 236267 226 /409:2¢8 20 882,701 ‘eel,

Pessoelaer’ $80 siirsorsng est!

191 192 193.104 195 DRT 238: rr josleedgor! aaa json

Fas

° Sante 430;3 76 sleaofing sb $9 12067 188 169 190
I f se)>77 2 fins 124 135 °36 137 139) 139

Bs

140 141 162.143 4

reine ae 92 93\94 95 138197 sere ‘0

ie 25992 s02'i80 sd 303 i910 ah
( sace8s 194 oe wre!

Clete cue ast

i

\
\i30 “407 ame od be og 103; ‘owt yori

: “99 epzs! $

62 ya st 102

werlr09}

aie 85 i ia79

Loa a 29ise2 33072 #90 re btearealt

\ ae eres
jmieseye cee ‘su

as/a6 s6hoal 01 Sens 3 1 gosleos 526° 62Y "7901919 4098:

!
ius herses.sveoie# £7;

i
39°68 105,150! 292 264;333}410 legs see'enslr9s'913 240

calrsriav: “osel

a

| orsipo boats Feoxj23a]116:127 56 $3i2e|! rf 2] Xt

6 ]19 1401691061151 feoazes;a3.jt 1 Hse" suseselss3 .$16 von!’

976 ea 37:540 sviszoker-zazh79)i26;e5152 271

' oe a im mi !
ie 18531740 bos 428 ‘ie a Tae #73 224183 ;50|30 48, L7 la

975 ‘asaj ras 36!

ist Ral lon 208 260835) 1214971550,691 pesiat? penal
106hS3 Rosier 99 i x es we ae ‘ots pes

keorbesiadr: TA 14 £99:992 | ‘eos $02 ;919 ac44|
74 Qj 1lohiss 08 asks jsooissse caealaroseus

H
1973) 852| 139%641537 448336729, 223 ‘eal 60 7p a
john 120 us/te ug}

ee =o ieee i

ohis nays a hafooong 339

jeezin27

t
271 5401817 iso2'

sseos! ) iteaj

OES 168 167 166 168 364 ls?
a ze 223222221 220 219 2:8

far7 216 2s\zr 213 21 tal heer
'

29012 "288287 7 20S 2B5 294283 222)

260279 278 Re 215 7a tyhe ole [42 sorlessisor ora 7al

abet 360 350358 257 sspsaa5e 389 ps2 st 339 ss 3ebg4Ag 46 HS A 03's98 eseigotis zine
al 439490 437 a 495 434.499 492/411 130 429 420 427 336 42g 424 £23 4 32 ae i 261051 |

4 320 527 StQS2> ye) S22 S21 520 519 Tsro}s17 516 $ID S14 s1a\pit bw 26 200 508 $0 ‘aco! 1084

w iwar,ostl

$ O24 623 F22621 H2EC}2 G18 617 O16 BID 61461

327 726 125124 WSALE 12) Yee2g 118 717 Int

—— Oil 610 609 606 & By COS 604 603 cn gy | rajen|
ae 38 707 706 705 704 yasit jezoeess

640 699 850437 836 695 67 059 O52 831 830 879 Brslez7

826825 824.823 82z 821 Ch2 HAAIS $17,414 B19 81 ve Dg oso

ate

ceed
ators
ae

7 \
i\

\
\

|

san

962 960 959 958 997 956 951053 952 951 950 G40 948 847 [540/945 S44 943 Gut 94! 940 s3h.938 x7 936 93$ 9034 933 932 Fyfe
aul 3 108s 1047 1066 1085 1084 WS 1OBT op cag 479 18 1017 WTO 179 wr for OTZ WOT! 1070 1008 1004 1067 a anges 1067 106! 1060 1059 056 AR vet
ue = == = ve

PRICES oR TIME on ORANGE LINES ‘Fo Aor AME
6h wN AL PRICES arr. &' 768
Nis é On ari tert. AES TORMIMG Pat TS -

Gen’ See’ Bee’ es’ Se’ Be ' | B'
‘a i a ‘ , si i _t
(Ss a ta
Dew — a sal 24¢ crate Char —_— i ;
‘ 44 720° 10 Tae TES 2 2880 3200 FS ECO 08D 5040, oo.
hal TOS - fOES| pars 1785 JAS K 2865 3635 3946 Sos S06 Spex: 605"
i 1 il 22 | 330° 1050 /470 36 | 1490 SP 32/0 | 1570 ae ais O/: (E379) $730 0 TEER
wr! US. 3) 135° | WS | 2475 Z BRS | 2555 4275) 4635 * S365 S715
jo 22} 4% 60 X20} /. 740 A460 2820 3180 | 3540" 3500 426011 4630 gggos340 S709" b060
i | gf 645 YES (7125 1295| 2445 2805 2S} 3h25 3005 425\| hos 4965. S35 shes bOFS
> 18 {xZo 630. © [HO 2070\ 2430 2740 HS: 3876 423)4590 4950. 5310 St70 8030
7 65 ° 995 |133S 1695 .2055 2775 YS | 626 3855 ahs \\45>x 4938 hos 5bYK- bol”
|g ¥s6 | 240 960 | 1320 \X$80" 2040} 2-400 ‘3/20 |3480 4200 4560 ip 5280 S640
§*‘ -g2 945 | 1305 IER 2025) 2385 YAK 3/05 | 3465 ZB $185} 4545 9905. 5215 6625
: 7 /¢ | UY s70.- 1290 /6S0 0 | 2379" 2730 ” 50 $619 5970 N
yB BS 9} 1275 1635 1s 4555 2S 30%. 5° 5955
pL Vo Spee 2700 3050
tM | OK SS, bas | BK 1006 2685 3045
"ig 10 | 150 819" Be | 1330 (880 |2310 26703030
9 |A5 BS 1/25 (RS nas | 2205 01S
gh yr He 1 1550 mo | 1280 2640
7/5 65 6 54 1925] 3765 2625
- g 46 [0 450. ae 1530. /650° bio 2970
(= 435 USE 1815 4655 2535 paK5
‘ 24. 4 60 : 70 | 1/90 - (860 | 2220 240
ae AE sages 765 | M25 ' LEFE | L208 22S
a ee 30/ 390 Gep)| WY /470 Ugo" 2550 >xo
ti 1S 3B Z M55 BIN\ HIS 235
ye IAS ss 3 4a 3
14 Ss s . ° 2 ° eo
ize. TR] Sa] 8] & AF YR

wee ht Oe eee ee

Oo |
Ww
a

ch

galt -.

werd
xe

2, | | -

=

rae

POA sche] seh]

it7t, 2@| ocodl ogéele

3

€ <

2s GC

31F

TTsTts
= ¢
~ q

ty
SAS
+ [EIS
creams
2 1) $
YI
= -

shsitt

rn wat \eus i) sbi

Fd Fee ed a

104
Ta BSD SG OI SSEDUE
Ibo, He

le fel PSP fo. y) fe | {7 ts7 tos tot Fa 198

STS beay Veet Wg hse @ Pb4 | Foo NLA 9G

eRe PEE f Vegi $Y ony raat _>

25 ree NOE PA a red
! 50

- : rere BED
AR ENOTES MAP ERD aati iia
g 4 t
4 TS. z : R Fe > x tee ey] AS
5400 0°
ee A add He oe 133 Ie 36 St Bie liar |

fea

—

mame eee eee ee eee ee eee ee ee
ic § : ee : i — iP y 2 i

. —o

pr?

‘kat

8

SHON

Ps

fe

105
Oo pre BULL

F297 Y NOLLOD °K SAB

YOS N3A4

ee ee ee ee ee rot sa oe SE eS
. , 4
. ei | _¢¥
Ne. wre . 4 AK
“SS ; “Wp lt Yj 4 A w, ” Sk
~ Loppl\ ofhl\ aéLlyrel\ocel \ogtL|og¢e etl voce oe Ml.\ohll/\o//2 vgoL \as0L\ 0% :
; ar lphe_ lene lone | dee lane | ett |-cpe | me fone | USF age |: dee | ate | see Ver} iL .
20st loge slozaslonad| asl ogeslasary css |obAS 07 pF |06h2? AS\OLE5| OES |OLS| 0659
= pucca te bese edn) der} "Be7 | 4o/\V 991 | 60 | 487 €8/| 231 | 18 YOR/-| 6U EA Zi:
4 g éxl, | 0619 ai a oe heh asihodap| abs, O76 reas ooget Lg hop 84 ICS 0969)
‘i ise | HOLA box| ber| eel we | stl oe | gee | eel ot! | bb gests IZs | ate
O49 SL byes wl ge|asse locke losZelogee| o¢tt| ont Ye9e oft osftl o/26| O49| 0669
ee cate vanes een sng fp (SE NEBL | il a | 96 |.46\| eels | bos VSB “8 | el Sin) ter woo
whan i Mal best loess teh se 601 oob/ Nett o4d/| o/c Payf\ 299/|0%47 | 0894) ogtelOce stats) &
si ie ae bie Level | | 26 or | ol ao | Le EF. | 28 | HL} oft | Fa
se7p1 shbh6s Soe NY otht. loud [Brelenae 096/)@0/ O24 098 | OD o4| 9 obs! Noort | osteo} Db/S| 0L89
—e expe opyh or ne ‘oA el be af wi | 16 / 0 “Eg ft. CU BIE) as ene
; oe a ae wl. \b9R5\ bbag cee \BLLQS0/ Zee) OF QL 0G | onv| oxte| OU 168
J bp ay ee ie fais | s9t |G EL | ene | / ¢ 2] _€ gat um =A ha\ fe = ts\ ral sees
p88) INES). “oand pas | ecchport | exh) hol) obey €| 0/8] ogg ebta) abe 26/2 0189 :
ese nee —. hn ase |96/ | tal Yel VA? y 96 b 9 pL oe. Ge hee | 2 | oe Af, —
| oa Géretl eee er ed of <4 WN\ 048 | OL OBL eae og se 7) 982) oo “ae
fee eee ee TT caus ns | EEL A SAN tet N82 DY | o
eG eked R79 Z
re eT eee See nee eee (77/7 b
i. Htsebg wow i : oes elit 9
a ae MO atv is... | Be Lees
ar oo snl 1 ShL pral “bi ae:
| BH olla Yh \oeo9 \04, ogre agen ee o/¢y ey 56h 0999} Y ;
cee te ty ge ta bexe: , (ee a Ci 2 er erm ae) &
ee ee che regen PO oogéloece| ogte|oceé lovhglasht | he Sb 0699|.°
ES Rss ed ariel, act | asf_ en ut i re “BUN sy = ase q¢/_|_ Rt Pen ee
ee defn og, abt h OL Lh lo0gp NEB 4 PIGH|ObGb | eb | 09
___..%. FN i hs 4 a 8 i gered gh 4p gh a ie
; waeier  * opel pe |eck9 chal oBf9\Ols9 0469/45
ee .. Ye th 7 =< s lic | ie |
AS o]] E€ 0% i 4 1G
fp ‘s ion . “Sp,
i

106
TS es /

vi
3
| Ni
Nt
: ¢
‘s
R)
’

ee

me

FE ts LB

on i

108
*-.-

\

= oe wu
|

a |
Hi

|

|

|

'
: =

:
?

Sek.
——

-

iy

Sh
SS
7

SS: i
RL

Psy

——S

ra
i As
baz
——
<P
Bee
\ Fi

|-L— 7

BB /

iZs_t

vi ae

Ad
44 f= 3
s%

i.

109
2
>
a]

25

-{-

a

+f -foef-

5

SSseoe
4+ }+-

de}

—-'

ee eo era

daft j= 14-89

I

Lo

=}+]--]-} b+ -} 4

of
4-]--4-]-]4-}-} 1 -

:

i

Sd ts ed ae F

-}-}—4 -]—}--} =}.

——

{| —} —b-}-4--4 =

Eat

4-4-44-]

ry

Eb |~i-| -t-1-Fe}-

=

i

of

=>

TT a fomped on food mfom} tm]

++44-1 44.5.1

j}-fetef-b-} 4.14]

>}
ie os

intr

a 4
Bad [a] eefendee fend «

pe of aad aah al

4

“He H-} 4-

m~

to] ebb te 4d
Seer

iT
Hi
t
1
t
:

Ss

-}-f4-|-
He
+}-}-4 -|-4-b-).

+
poy ate

tT?
H HRSOK ase "V9AIIS TUE BL RAY OC “a”

B)

+. ||
om

4

oe oe es
4
-

BSW
aN

7he44-}-4]

*00°SS SOFIE *SeSSOT Jo puAysUy B35 Jord exva nok drey pus ATINJssaoone epery 07 £04

OUX 0} NOL aTQaus {Tye - 8eszpocuos puw sx20zs YO Gpoyzaa Fue sé{ns [voF,oOuId 2uzayai

Ht

"4

4
cL SS

4000 UW ~ ,Od¥zZ A209S MR JO GINIT, ‘aio acty Pus es0G Psee ‘s2A0d S} @3pstacuy

>

*929T4G pus sysvoes0z!

eidews 205 Sytsr «6s vek JufaoT{oy eyz Susyanp yexsem e4yy Jo s21n0o syy Zuzuttyno ‘t4eq!

~caoed UF tueh ALaAe Fenssy ois 3044 ;pommM0D s9UZo puw [Jo ‘xeqqnz ‘vo209 ‘av3ns ‘eezj09

=}-|=t 1

*
.

i
t
L
T n
'
n
}
H

Fr |

*Ul0d *Z2eYR *U0ZZ09 *SXD04S TUENPTATPUT pus yoxtvG 49049 Te12UEeS SYy Jo SysvOeI04

td Lm bm pepe J |

-|-4—]--}=] -]--] -] -]-

-|-+4- me

suueg “4m Aq apsa sysvosics DFJ WUOFOS OZvinoo” ATQuyXLUGaT 94y UO PazUsCTOD eALY ‘sezzI

1

POITUN CGZ FNoYSno14, seutzesva puv suedvdsaeu 19440 SNOyABA FUV UdvsdeToL auyuson

1

4

i
i
EE

J

4

AAOZ, AON MCVIFSTIL upton OK aey tung ALOK Sot ‘pTessy, XI0Z 22:1.2Y3. os7..9UY4.. vDUTS

*plooes Suppery PUY sUOT St perd [njroptica S,uUND “4p; OF YOZ,UOAZe P2T{E> ye133 “GE0BT—

ae

*19Q099eC LE (QeeIzS TLV Jo auszeSur oy, mou) euszeIUT 4aXOFL OUL “EC6T GouTS Bezzued —

bit l|-|-i- Je Ee]

asff-d =f]

a

azvatid puw ot 1qnd 403 2933$pcaz09 PUY #xD038 UO sys¥D0102 SuyNeS} UOeQ suy UURD “uy fF

bet

x

~4-}---} 4 --} |}

"9sv2e104 S,ivat Yous uy suotzs.43suy payuyad pug—it

1

sydv12 poxoef ota 244 fq yeu2e103 o4em $00270Q pue sdoy usya gerizs 94% saous 43 ‘vonds—>

al fast

a ee ee eee

si

JO XBT FO 4UNOIIV UO s4geoor0s TuUTIzs0 oY, SU acRS O42 PeOTds you ST} 44BYo Oud OTe

afd fd

"92GT 0% GIGT Bors poyssd Our 2940 3291109 706 07 Se U9EQ CAL szSUDzI01 SY 304, senord;
_ (aust UexX0Ig) Sx9035 TETAISNEHY O2 ,seuoe nog 043 AG UNcYS sz 494117 TenjO0 942, UdTa
(2UsT X2VTQ PFTOS) srsusat0d Tontuy Jstueg -¢ “4 Jo uosszedaos wv at YDFYA I4eYS STUL is

PEE

he b oh
“4
—

= bed bee

ait

E

bee

+]
+H

110
i]
(yt
ia
et
#2
Be
free rey
ay
a
> |-83
382
EU

|

4\

c

i

adnate

ag

ae
ae

4S HOL IG
i 51408 4 28-

i a

;
b sb aa ly 3 7
4 1-4
4
4

Hes Hee Pa 49
: Z laaa [ad
8% 7 27 ag

43 las
Q 4
4) ek YN R aie
He 1930 loeqlz
Sf = jp baw Soucg
{

Tegdet-

|S lp

Se | aa)

Vite} tT

Spas “ELT AL WV di SO RAEE
{RRL BEET OE tA | live 48g 14a [447

baat
ei: art Yet B) Be}
ite a
44
av

HOW TO TRADE

After you havethoroughly mastered all of the lessons, be sure you are right
before you make a trade. Never guess. Trade on scientific indications: only.

WHAT YOU MUST KNOW BEFORE YOU START TRADING:

You must mow exactly how to apply all the rules; how to draw the geometrical
angles or moving-arérage iines from tops and Loitoms; how to square Time with
Prices how to brinrs °* te important 45° angles or lines, wnich represant 9 rov-
ing average. You must mow where to plece a ston loss orcer and must look un
whet cycae the year is an, that is, determine iruw the Master Forecasting Unart
whether it is a bull or bear year, whether vino aan trend should be up or dow.

Before you make a trade, either buying or selling, consider the position of L
each individual stock on the monthly chart; next consider the weekly chart and
then the daily chart. If they al] confirm an uptrend, it is a cinch to buy, pro-
vided you have located the point at which to place a stop loss order. On tho L
other hand, if the cycle shows that it is a bear year and the monthly, weekly and
daily charts show dowmtrend, then it is the time to go short, but again you mst
look for the most important point—where to place the stop loss order so that it L
will not be more than 3 points away and closer if possible, .

WHAT TO LOOK UP BEFORE YOU MAKE A TRADE:

Following are the most important points thet you must consider before buyiny,
or selling a stock:

1, Annual Forecast dotermines year of Timo Cyclo, whether bull or bear yoar, and
main trend of the general murkot, up or cuwn,

2. Cycle of individual stock, whether up or down year.
3. Monthly position on angles. from.tops and bottoms und time periods.

4. Weekly position on. time. periods from tops and bottoms and on angles from tops
and bottoms, See if it is. squaring out Time from top or bottom.

5. Daily position om emgies from important tops and bottoms and time periods,
See whether ea stock 4s near square of recent top or bottom.

6. Resistance Levels on price. See whether the stock ig near any half-way point.
or other points of support or resistance.

7. Look to see if stock has held for several days, weeks or months around samo J

lovel and whether it is about ready to cross or break important angles from
tops or bottems.

8. Loek up volute of sales, See whether a stock has incroased or docroased J
volumes over past few days or weeks.

9. Look wp Space or price govement, up or dom, for past movements. Find out J

what was the greatest advance or doclino for past few woeks or months. For
etample: If a stock has reacted S points sovcral times end at tho timo you

i
F-18

look it up, you find it is 3 points dowm from tho last top ond the trend is up
on monthly, weckly and daily with tho price near a support anglo, you could
buy with a stop loss order 2 to 3 points away; then if tho stock broke back

ovor S points, the previous reaction limit, it would show a change in trend
and you should bo out of it.

10. Remembor, the most important factor to dopend on to dotermine tho position

of a stock is Geomoetricnl Angles. Be suro tu bring up tho angles from "0"
from recent tops and bottoms,

ll. Never overlook the fact that you must have a definite indication before mak—
ing a trade.

12. Most important of all—Always locate the point at which to place a stop loss
order to limit risk.

PRACTICE TRADING ON PAPER:

After you feel sure that you have mastered all the rules and know exactly
how to determine the trend of a stock and the place to begin trading, then to
make yourself doubly sure end establish confidence, practice trading on paper
until you thoroughly understand how to use the rules and when to use them. If
you make mistakes trading on paper, then you would make mistakes at that timo
in actual trading and you aro not ready to begin trading. When you feel that
you are competent to start trading, apply all of the rules and trade only on
definite indications. If you are not sure of the trend or the buying and sell-
ing price end not sure where to plece a stop loss order, then wait until you got
a definite indication. You can always make money by waiting for opportunities.
There ts no use getting in partly on guesswork and losing.

WHEN TO CLOSE A TRADE:

After you start ectual trading, when you -make oa trade, don't close it or
take profits until you have a definite indication according to the rules that it
is time to sell out or buy in or to move up the stop loss order and wait until

it is caught. The way to make a success is to follow the trend always and not
get out or close a trade until the trend changes.

WHEN TO WAIT AND NOT TRADE;

It is just as imrortant to know when not to enter the market as it is to
know wnen to enter it. The time not to innke a trade is when you find a stuck
has been holding in a narrow trading range for somo time, say, & S-point or a
3-point range, but has not broken under bottoms previously made or crossed tons
nreviously made. A stock may stay for weeks or months or even years in a trading
range and will not indicate any big move or change in trend until it crosses a

previous top or breaks a previous bottom, If a stock is inactive in this positie
it is no time to start trading in it,

Another time not to make a trade is when a stock has narrowed dow betwoen
two important enzles—has not broken under one or crossed the other. Wait until
it fgets out in the clear and fives a definite indication tefore you trade.

After n prolonged decline stecks neerly always narrow down and hold in a
trading rango for some time. Thon you should wait until the engles from the
bottom aro broken cr the engles from the top are crossed and the stock broaks ov-

113
F-19

er an old top before you make a trade. In other words, at all times trade when
you have a definite, well-iofined trend.

CAPITAL REQUIRED FOR TRADING

Before you do any trading, you must know the amount of capital required to
make a success trading and the exact amount that you must risk on any one trade
in order to always have capital left to trade with.

"You can begin trading in 10 shares, 100 shares, 1000 shares or any other

amount, but the main point is to divide your capital poperly and to distribute
the risks equally to protect your capital.

Whetever amount of capital you use to trade with, follow this rulo:
Divide your capital into 10 equal parts and never risk more than 10% of your
oapital on any one trade. Should you lose three consecutive times, then reduce

your treding unit and only risk 10% of your remaining capital. If you follow
this rule, your success is sure.

As a general rule, I have always considered it advisable to use at least
$3,000 capital for every 100 shares of stock traded in and to limit risks to
3 points or less on every trade. In this way you will be able to make 10 trades
on your capital and the market would have to beat you 10 consecutive times to
wipe out your capital, which it will not do. You should try to make trades at a

price where it will only be necessary to use one to two-point stop loss orders,
which will cut down the risk.

If you want to start trading in small wmite of stock, use.a capital of $300
for each 10 shares and never risk more than 3 points on the initial trado. Try

to make tho first trade, if possible, where your stop loss order will not be more
than one or two points.

ADLNAYS FOLLOW RULES: Decide this important point before you start trading.
If you do not intend to follow the rules strictly, do not begin trading. Nevor
allow runsswork or the human element to enter into your trading. Stiok to the
"Capital" rule end under no condition risk more than one-tenth of your capital
on any one trade. Follow the mathemtical rules and you will make a suocess.

PYRAMIDING

You should only pyramid or increase your trading in active markots whore
volume is above normal. The position on angles and volume of activity will show
you when to pyramid. You should never begin pyramiding until a stock has gotten
into a strong position on angles or into a weak position on angles, or until it
has broken out of a trading range by crossing old tops or breaking old voitums.

HOW TO PYRAMID:

If you are trading in 100 shares, after you have made your first trade with
a risk limited to 3 points or 10% of your capital, then do not pyramid, or buy
or sell a second lot, until the market has moved at least 5 points in your favor}

then when you buy or sell a second lot, use a stop loss order not more than 3
points away on both trades,

Example; We will assume that after buying the second lot, the trend re—
verses and the stop loss orders on both trades are caught 3 points away from

114

‘oi Rei eeormr rrr rPFerrwrereweoeees |

where you bought the last lot. This will give you a loss of 3 points on the last
trade and a profit of 2 points on the first trade, or a net loss of only one
point. On the other hand, if the merket continues to move in your favor, your
profits will be twice as much after buying the second lot,

Whe the market has moved 5 points more in your favor, you buy a third lot,
moving up the stop loss orders on the first and second lots end placing a stop

on the entire lot of threo trades not more then 3 points away and closer, if
possible.

Continue to pyramid as long as the market moves 5 points in your favor, al-
ways following up with stop loss orders. When a stock selling betweon 5 and 75
a share has moved 15 to 25 points in your favor, you should begin to watch for a

change in trend ond be careful about buying or solling enothor lot on which you
may have to take a loss.

THE RUN OR PYRAMIDING MOVE:

The big money in pyramiding is made in the run between accumulation and dis-
tribution, that is, after a stock passes out ci cne zone of accumulaticce, Pyra-
mids should be started after double or trinle tons ure crossed and the stock
clears the zone of accumulation. Then. when you get into this run, buy every

S points up, protecting with a stop loss order not more than 3 points away from
the last trade,

Reverse this rule in ea declining market: After double or trinvle bottoms
are broken and the stock clears the zone of distravution, sell every 5 points

down, protecting with stop loss orders not more thnn 3 points ahove the last
trade. :

FAST MARKETS AND WIDE FLUCTUATIONS:

When stocks are very active and moving very fast, solling above $100, then
you wil] find it best to make trades 7 to 10 points apart. The angles and price

Resistance Points as well as old tops and bottoms will determine points to place
stop loss ordeys with safety.

In fast-moving, markets, like the panio of October and November, 1929, when
you pyramid on active stocks and have very large profits, you should follow dovm,
with a stop loss order about 10 points away from the market. Then, after a sc-
vere decline reduce stop loss orders, plucing them about 5 points above tho low
level. Whon a market is moving as fast as this, you should not wait for the

stock to got into o strong position on angles. Reverse this rule in an advancinr
market.

SAFEST PYRAMIDING RULE:

One of tho safest rules to use for pyremiding whon stocks oro selling nat ox-
tremely high levels or extromely low lovels is to start with 100 shares and whon
the morket moves 5 points in your favor, buy another 50 shares; then when it move
5 points more, buy or soll 30 sharos; then on the next 5-point move in your fcvor
buy or sell 20 shares, and continue to follow tho market up or dowm with this
amount until there is a change in tho main trend.

WHEN NOT TO PYRAMID:

Safety is the first consideration in starting or continuing ao pyraomiding

115
116

P-21

campaign in a stock, Mistakes are mado by buying or selling a second lot too
near the accumulation or the distribution point, After a big move up or down,
you must always wait for a definite change in trend before starting oa pyramid,

Never buy a second lot for a pyramid wien a stock is near a double top or
sell a second lot when a stock is near a double bottom.

A stock often holds several days or weeks in a range of 10 to 12 points,
moving up ond down, not crossing the highest top or breaking tho last bottom made,
As long as it remains in this range, you should not pyramid. When it gets out
of this rango, crossing tho highost top or breaking the lowest bottom, thon it
will indicate o bigger move and you should start to pyramid.

Always check ond double check, follow all the rules, study the major and minm
time cycles for forecasting, the ongles from tops and bottoms, the Resistance
Points of Prico betwoen tops and bottoms, If you ignore ono importent point, it
may get you wrong. Romomber, tho whole can never excood all of its parts, and
oll of tho parts make up tho whole. If you loave out one of tho parts or ono of
the rules, you do not have a completo trend indicotor.

Novembor, 1935

‘tigi hi niin ere PEP EE eS ee eee

CHAPTER 7

METHOD FOR FORECASTING

THE STOCK MARKET

| W. D. GANN
Scparen \ovat 18 W ALL STREET Meunea

AND ANS FV TIVAL RLDOATE ; AMERICAN ECONOMIC Ati
ON STAB AND Communes NEW. YORK. ROYAL ECONOMIC Soc

IMIOA OF “TAL “HH Oe THE SAWOK TARA” . CAauz Anpacsas *
] - AMO WTHa TUNNEL OIRU THR AlAt . : “OAMWADE NEWYORK™

OD FOR F ORECASTING, THE STOCK WARKET
Be eae :

sissessszsst stessses esses sss ssh

KIND oP CRRTS

«-

You should keep a. yoarly,; monthly, webkly and ovornizi.t
enarc. You-will find on the weokly. chart that stooks will often
reverse tho minor trend and run up two or three weeks, but the
third Week it will not’ make a highor.top or a higher bottom;
yeb at other times it will hold for soveral wooks. without advanc~
ing above the level made in the: firot tvo weeks? rally. ‘In casés
of ‘this kind, 4t is always safe to tuy or sell with a stop 3,
points .above or below the two weels! reverse move. If the markct
is go.ngz-highnor, it ‘should oontime up the third wook,: or cown, us

the case may be. . The rules ‘apply :‘ina bear market-as ina bull
market.

eho Overnight ‘Chart, in order to show a reversal in
trond, must zo S points above the last tov ox bottom. The Over~
night Chart is based on Bottoms. “As long as higher bottoms are
made, 1t-continues upward. As- long. as lower bottoms are made, it
continues dovnward, The .basis of all movements are calculated
from bottons. For a market to advance, ‘bottoms must be progressive
or increasing, and if a market declines, bott oms nust AoorOsae «

HOW TO FORECAST

Evory movement in the market.is the result ofa natural
law and of a Cause which exists long’ before the Effect. takes place
and can be determined yeara in advance. The future is but a re-
petition of the past, as the Bible. plainly states: "The thing
that hath veen, it is that which: shall be; and’ that which is done
is that which shall be done,.and there is no new thing under ‘the
sun." «Ecol. 1:9.

Fverything has a.major snd ce’  ainor, and in order to te
accurate ir: forecasting the future, you must kmow the major cycle,
as the most money is made when extreimo Flug tuations occur.

The major cycle of stocks occurs:every 49 to 50 years.
A period of."jubilee" years of _ extreme high or low prices, lasting
from 5 to 7 years oocur at the'end of the 50+yoar cyole.

"eo 48 oa fatal number referrod to many times in the Bibie
and it is ruled by the planet Saturn, Which, brings about contrac—
tions, depression, and panics. , Seven times "7". "-equula 49, whicn
‘4a shown as the fatal evil ‘year, ‘oausing, extreme ‘fluotuations’s:

= ewe ee eee ee ee

118
a F

Pago #2. |
The most important Tirie,.cycle-is the -20-ysar cyclo, or |
240 months and most stocks and averagon work closor to this cycle

than any other. Five years is one-quarter of twenty and ton years

{s one-half of twonty and very important hecause it 10.120 montns,.
Fifteen yours is throe-quarters: of’ twenty years and important be- L
cause it 48 180 months, just the’ same as 7 7/2 years.ia 9O months,
because 84 5/8 is 15/16 ‘of 90. eo

The next important major cyole is 30 years, Which is
caused by the planet Saturn, This planét makes ono revolution
around the sun evory 50 years. Saturn rules, the products of the
earth and causes extrems- high or low:pricos in products of the
earth at the end of each 30-yoar.cycle, and this maken Stocks high
or low. The most important cyole of all is the 2O~year cycle.

The next important major. cycle is the ‘10-year oyole,
which produces fluctuations of the: samo neturo and extreme high
or low overy 10 years. Stocks come ‘out remarlably, close on each
even lO-year oyole.. The minor cycles are 5 years and 6 yedra. The

amollest oyole is 1 year, which will’ ofton show a‘change in the
1Oth or lith month. .- ay ‘

In rapid markets a move will run 6 to 7. weeks and have
som kind of a minor reversal in trend, but often markets will
continue for several months, Only reacting two woeks, thon resting:

—

possibly two or three’ weeks and ‘rosuming tho main trend. Often
they move right on up or dowm,in’the third week. This same rule
applies to daily movements. ‘Fast markets will only. move two-days pa

jn ine opposite direotion to the. main) trend’ and on the third day
they will resumo their “upward or downward. course-in harmony with
the main trend.

In all movements use the angles and also calculate the
1/3,2/3, 1/4, and 3/4 points of the major or. minor move. One-half
4s the most important as it equals the 459 angle,, which is: the
strongest and most,fatal. “The next in importance is 2/3, which
would equal a triangle, or 120 .

a ee

All rules based on Natural Law are applied the same to =
Time,.Space and Volume charts. |

Zt never pays to guess. Always consicer the main time _
swings of a’ narket; then watch your weekly and Overnight charts
until they show a reversal or tirfe has expired. All markets move |
in three to,four sectiions. The third or fourth movement up or ‘down
parks the.culmination. A-‘reverse signal is‘always given vefore ~
tine expires and then the market -may make two or threo swings
up or: down into the same territory,.going 4 little higher or 4
little lover than the tops or bottoms from whioh the warning signal -
wos given. When this is taking“ploce the.market ‘is either being’
accumulated: or distributed.

fees hee

a

119
any  Sottom and it witl give the. next .top with the samo vey

Page #3

TIME RULES FOR Enea. STOCKS.

The stock lurket movos in 20-year oyoles, which is worked
out in 5-year oyoles.~-:a S-yeur oycle: up Gnd. a 6S-yoar oyole down.

Rule 1; Bull or bear campaigns do not run more than
3 to 33 years up or down without,a movo of 3 to 6 months or one
year in the opposite diroction, ' “Many campaigns culminate in the
23rd month, not running out the full two years. Watch the weekly
&nd monthly charts .to determine whcther theo culmination will occur
in tho 25rd“or 24th month of the move,:or in the 34 to 35, 41 to

- 42, 49-to 60, 67.to 72, or 84 to 90th, months.

Rule 2* <A Rull campaign runs five yeurs; -2 years up,.
1 year down, and 2:years up, completing a S-year cyole. Tho ond
of a 5+yoar campaign comes in the 59th or 60th months. Always
watch for the change .in the 59th month.

Rule 3: A Bear-oyole runs five years, down. First move
2 years down, then 1 year up and 2 yoars dovwm: = completing the 5-
year down swing.

Rule 4: Add ten years to any top and it Will give you
another top of a 10 year cycle with about the same average fluc-
tuations.

Rule ‘S: Add ten'years to any .bottom and it will give
you the next hottom.of the 10-year. cyole and of the same kind of.
@ year and about tho same average fluctuations.

Rule’ 6: Rear campaigns run out in 7-your cycles, or Ss
years tnd 4 years from any complcto bottom. From any compicte
bottom, of a cycle first ada 3 years-to ‘get.the noxt bottom; then
add 4 yoars to get bottom of 7-yeur’ cycle, ©

Rule 7; From any. complete ton add three years to get
tne next top; then add three e years to the first top, which will:
Give -the second top. Add four years to the second top to get the
third and final top. ‘of!a 10-year oyold.

Rule 8: Add"fivd years to any top,"Wwill. give the next
bottom of' a five-year cyole with-about the same-average fluctu-
ations. In order to get tops of ‘a S-year cycle, add:five yeers ‘to

fluctvetions. 1917, bottomior «a big beur .campaign - add ve years -
gives 1922 top of a minor bull campaign. YWhy'do I say "Top of a
Minor 2ull Campaign"?. 1919 was:top.~- add five ‘years to 1919, - gives
1924 as bottom of a S-yoar ‘Bear oyole.” refer, to.Rule'2 and 3, which
Wiil tell you that a Bull “or Bear sampaign never.runs more ‘than two -
years in the: same. directions.
The "ar campsifnn from 1919 was down tyvo yoars = 1920 and 1921:
therefore, Wo con only rect a leyear rally in 1922; thon two years
down - 1923 and 1924, which completcs the Seyoar Rear cycle. Now,
look back to 1913 and 1914 und you will see that 1923 and,1924
must pe Pear yours to complicte the 10-year cycle from the bottoms
of 1915 and 1914, Then note 1917 bottom of a Bear yoar. add, seven
years and it ylives 1924 also as bottom of a Bear cycle.

Rulo 9: {ow to make up Annual Forecasts for any ycar.
Take ter years back and the future ycar will run very close to the

last 10-year cycle. For instance = 19352 will run like 1902, 1912,
and 1922. . é

There is a major oyole of 30 years, Which runs out three
ten-ycar cycles. The lO-year cycle back from the present and the
2e-year cycle have the most effect on the future. But in complet-
ing the 30-ye@r cycle, it is best to haye 30 yeurs past records to
check up to mike up a future forecast. For instance: In order to
maxe up my 1922 Forecast, I check 1892, 1902, and 1912, and watch
for minor variations in monthly moves. But I know that 1922 will
run closest to 1912. However, some stocks will run close to the
fluctuctions of 1892 and 1902. Remember eaoh stock works fron its
.ovin pase or 1rop its own tops and bottoms, and not always accord-
ing to Average tops and bottoms. Therefore, judge each stock in-
Gividuzliy und kcep up weekly and monthly charts on then.

Pulc 10: Extreme Great Cycles. There must always be «
major and u pimor, 2 lesser and a grouter, & positive and & negitive;
¢hat is Why stocks havo three important moves in a lO-year cyclic,
two tops three years apart and the next one four years. This works
agcin the five years moves, 2 years up and 1 yeur down, then 2 yesrs
up - tWo rajor and one minor movo, The smallest complete cycle or
workout in a market is five years, anc 10.is a complete cycle.

Five times ten equals 50, which is the greatest cycle. At tho end
of &6redt Cycls of 50 years, extreme high and lov prices occur.
Go ..c.. Over past recordg and you can verify this.

The numrer "7" 4s the basis of tine, and a panicx occu:s
and ccpression in the stock market every seven years, which is
extreznc-ancd greater than the threeeyear decline. Note 1SC7, 1937,
etc. Seven tizes seven is fatal, which makes 49 years, anc c&uces
extreme fluctuutions in the 49th to 50th year. kerember tit you
must begin with bottoms or tops to figure all cycles, whetner xs jor
or minor. < Ixtrerc fluctuutions also occur at. the end” of a SO-year
cycle 4s you can see by going back 30 to 50 years.

Rule 11: . Monthly moves can be determined by the same rule
&5 yeariy; i. €., add three months to a bottom, then add four,
muking seven, to get minor tottoms and reaction points. But rencn-
ber in uo “ull market 4a reaction may only least two or three weeks;
then tre cavance is reésumcd. In tnis way, a market may continue .
up for twelve months without breaking a monthly bottom. In Riz up

121

rmrerrrre fe

es’ Bee’ Ee ' LE. ff _

a
mr SS es ee

122

SWins A readtioan will not lagt over two montha, the third month
‘yeing xp, the Some rule ac (Ly, year Ly Cyele « thy dawn and the ;
third up. This sume rule A@nplies in Bear markets ~ rellijet not
lasting nore than tvo months. Most moves min out in six to seven
weeks. Sévéen days in a week, and seven times soven making 49 ‘days,
‘a fatal furning point. Always watch your annual trend. and consider
whether you are in @ bear or Rull market. Many times when-in a.
Bull year, with the monthly chart showing up, a stock will.react
two or three weeks, then rest three or four.weeks, going into new
territory and advancing six to soven weeks more. Always consider
whether or not your’big time linit’ has run out before judging a
reverse nove, and do not fail to consider your indications on tine
both fron main tops and bottoms. —

Rule 12:. Daily Charts: The daily swing runs on the sare
rules as yecrly and mothly cycles, but of course it is only & minor
nom. of then. Important daily changes occur every seven and ten
Gays, Puring & month natural chanzes in trend occur around the éth
te 7tn, 9th te 10th, 14th to 15th, 19th to 20th, 23rd to 24th, 29th to
Slst. These minor moves occur in accordance with tops and bottoms of
individual stocks. atch for a change in Trend 30 days from the last.
tavor bottom. This is very important. Then watoh for chanres 6& 90,
1°60 days from tops or bottoms, 180 days, or six months, is very im-
portemt anc sanetimes marks changes Yor greater moves. Also the Sth

avd llth months from tops or'!bottoms should be watched for 4mportant
minor and often major changes.

A daily chart gives the first short change, which may run.
fo> seven or ten days, the Yeekly the: next important changes in
trend, and the mcathly the strongest. Hkemenber: weekly moves run
three to even weeks; monthly moves 2 to 3 months or more, according
to the yearly cycle, before reversing.

It is important to note whether a@ stock is making higher or
lower bottoms each year. For instance, if @ stock hos made a higher
bottom wach year for five years, then wakes a lower than previous
year, it is & sign of a reversal and may mark a long down cycle. The
same rule applies in stocks that are making lower tops for a number
of yeurs in a Rear market.

Study all the instructions and rules I have given you. Read
them over several times, as each time they will become clearer to you.
Study the oharts and work out the rules in aotual practice, as well as
on past performances, In this way you will make: progress and-will
realize and appreciate the value of my method of forecasting..

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FORECASTING THR STOCK MARKET.

First, remember-time is the most important of all yactors
and not until sufficient time has expired does any bir cove up or
Gown start. Ths time factor will overbalance both space and volume.
Wnen tine is up, space movement will start. and big volume will begin
€ither up or down, Time rules, Always consider your annual Forecast.

123

second, consider each individual stock and determine
4ts trend frou its position according to distance in time fron
bottom on top. Esch stock works out its 5, 10, 20, 50, 50 and
60 year aycl=s from its ovn bottoms and tops, regardless of the
movements of other stocks, even those in the same group.

Third, monthly reversals or changes in trend often eccur
after two to three months. The chanre starts in the third month,
according to the main time factor you are working in.

-Fourth, weekly. time-rules. stock will run down two to
three weeks and sometimes four, but as a rule a reversal or shanzge will
occur in the third week and will only run three weeks against the
main trend, In @ Bull: market two weeks! decline, or possible three,
and in the middle of the third week the trend will turn up and close
higher et the ond of the third week. In some casos ths chanze-in
trend will not come until the fourth week. Then the reversal will
come and it will close higher at the end of the fourth week. All of
these rules are reversed in a bear market.

Fifth, rapid advances or declines on: big volume will run
about seven weeks. Thes€ are culmination moves up or down. “aten
for bottom or top around the 49th to 52nd day, slthough at times the
or tecips or top will cane on the 42nd to @5th day and a change in trend
will e*ort. .

Rerember that at-the end of any big movement, either xonthjy,
weekly, or daily move, savetime must be consumed for accumulation or
aistrivution. So, you must allow for this. ‘Watch your ungles and
time periods. Aftor a murket has declined seven weeks, it may have
two or tnree short weeks on the side und then turn up, which agrees
with the morthly rule for’a change in the third month. ,

In regard to daily time rules, the daily chart gives the first

chance Lut remember it may only run from s6ven to ten days, then follow
the =ain trend. ‘Ihe weekly chart will give the next important cuange
in trend but remember it may not run more than three to four weeks

or in extreme oases not more than six to seven weeks, then reverse.

and fsllow the main trend.-

The monthly chart may reverse and run down three to four
months, tren rovorse and follow the main trend again, or run up
three to four ronths in a beur mrket, then revorse and follow the
pain trend, «lthougk as a general rule, in # bear market stocks

never ally more than two months. They start breaking in the tnira
month sand follow the main trend down.

rr ere =

r

Roe Me Thee Wee Be

ol i
124

rer eS ES ES = ee wk eee ee

nover decide that the main trend has changes one way or
the others without consulting your angles from top.or bottom and
without consideriag the position you are in in the cycle of each
individuef stock. ‘hen extreme advances or declines occur. the
first time that the murket reverses over me-fourth or one-half
of the distance traveled, in the last section, you can eongider
that the trend has turned up or down at loust for the present,

It is important to watch space movements: because when
time is running out one way or the other, space movements will show
& reversal by breaking back over 1/4, 1/3, or 1/2 of the disturice
of the last move, which indicates the main trend has changed,

HO TO USF ANGLES FRO! TOPS AND BOTTONS
LS eenennonSepsananetD

The angles to be used from a bottom of a
from the point marked "0" and those starting down toon tie tas oP
the chart marked "T" are the way thoy sre put on from the top running
down, Remember, tho first thing to do when you want to put angles -
on from bottow to top is to draw the angle of 45°, then draw next the
angle of 2 x 1 on each side of the 45° angle. In many casoe, yau:
“itt not have te. use any. Gher, angIPd Hera Leto Wine, then put onthe
“eather angles when they ure necessury. of -aemeed , 42 your stock is
advenci.. very rapidly, then keep your 1x 4 angle on and your 8 x 1.
The sc:. applics when it is having a sharp decline--keep your angle

of 8 x 1 anc 4 x 1 drawn down, using the scale of 1 point to each 1/8
of an incn, as shovn on your Pattern Chart.

A stock to keep above the 45° angle must mkxe a gain af one
point per moitn, i. e. it must raise its bottoms one point per -‘sonth.
To keep above the angle of 8 x 1 going up, it must raise its: bottons
eCight points per month, and to keep above the angle of 4 x 1 it must
raise i.s bottoms four points per month. To keep above the angle of
5x1, it mus! raise its bottoms three points per month, and to keep
above une angle of 2x 3 it must raise its bottoms 1} points per month
or mke a: gain of 18 points per year. On the left hand side of -the
angle of 45°, beginning with the angle of 6 x 1, the stock only hus
to maxe a gain of 2 points per yoor., If a stock camot rise above an

angle of this xind, it is in a very weak position and of course on the
bear’sive of the square. .

The angle to the left of the angle of 3.x 1 indicates a
gain of 3 points per year and the angle of 3 x 1 indicates a gain of
4 points per year. Tne next angle of 2x1 indicates a goin of 6
points per yeer or 1/2 point per month.

Coming down after having broken the angle of 45° and break-
ing this angle, a stock is in-:a very weak position, especially if it
‘ps a long ways from the base, and indicutes much lo prices.

“fne enqie of 3 x 2 on the lef¢ rises ut, the pate of #2
pointg in 12 months er e@ gain of 3/4 ot a point por month in order
to keep above this angle. It is not necessury to draw angles from
a long ways back. You cm make the calculation end determine where
they cross. Yor example: Suppose in 1900, in the nonth-of January,
a stock made bottom at 15, and I want to caleulate whore the 45°
@ngle will crves 20 years later in Janucry, 1930. The 45° angle
rises at the rate of 1 point per month, then 10 years would be 120
months or 120 points added to 15 at the bottom; the 45° angle would

cross at 155 in January, 1930. All of the other angles my be cal-
culated in @ long way back in the same way.

I have marked on the Pattern Chart {he measured degrees
of the apgles, which you will see are i 7% ».15°, 188°, 265°,
so°, 33°, 374°, 45°, 522°, 562°, 60°, 635°, 713°, 75°, 823°, 963°,
and 90°. You do not have to bother about measuring these angles..

All.you have to do to get the angles correct is to count the spaces
and draw your lin3s or angles accordingly.

You will notice on your Pattern Chart how each angle drawn
from the top and from the bottom ala themselves by the point at
vhich they cross. For example; € angle of 8 x 1 drawn from "0"
and the angle of 8 x 1 dravm from 90 down both cross at <5, 5-5/8
'dnts-over from "0" counting to tho right. Then take the angle of

x 1 fron "0" and 4 x 1 down from 90 and you will notice that they

cross at 117 on 45, equal distance from the other angle and of course
twice ‘Ke measure.

© The reason why these angles prove this way is because the
45° angle or 45 points, degrees, or anything else from "0" to 45 is
one-half of 90. Therefore parallel angles beginning at "oO" going up
and at 90 coming down, must cross on a 45° angle or at the gravity

center. .
RULFS FOR ANGLES FROM BOTTOMS

From any bottom, bese or beginning point, two 45° angles
‘can be started, one running up from the vertical angle and one running
down fror. the vertical angle. You can also use a 45° anble or any
other anvzle from any top, running the 45° angle down from the top,
which indicates a decline of 1 point per month, week or day, accord-
‘ng to your scale of prices; then running the 45° angle up from the
:p, Which would indicate a gain of 1 point or 1 degree per month.

For example: Take the low of U. S. Steel’ on November 15,
1929, wren it sold at 150. Start the 45° angle up and it gains 1
point per ronth; then start the 45° angle down from 150 and the stock
has to decline 1 point per month to rest on the angie of 45°.

November, 1930, was 12 months from November, 1929, and
_ S$. Steel mede low in November, 1630 at 138, which was on a ¢5°
«gle froz the bottom at 150.

In December, 1930, U. S. Stoel made an extreme low of
134-3/8. This was 2 points under the 45° angle from 150, but rested

r

=
me J9.

In Pescnicr, 1950, U. S. Steel closcd above tho 45° angle from

the bottot of 150. As long os it staya ubove this angle, it is

in a stronger position, but to regain the strongest position, it
| Will hive to crosa the angies of 45° from 150 on the up side and
: stay shove this angle.

| on the angle of 2 x 1 froa the low at 1114, nude in Junusry, 1927.

Rercmber thet when any stock breaks under the 45°
angle on the daily, weekly or monthly puts it in a very weak
position and indicates 4 decline to the next angle. However,
when a stock can regain the 45° angle, it is in a stronzer position.
Tne sare rule applics to a 45° angle up.fran any top. When a stock
crosseg the angie on the daily, weolly or monthly and stays above
the 45° angle, it is in @ very strong position.

After a stock once drops below or gets above any important
angle anc then reverses its position by getting back above the angle
or Gropping back below it, it changes the. trend again.

The angles on the Monthly and Weekly charts are, of course,
of greater importance than those on the Daily charts, because the
daily trend can change quite often, while only the mJjor changes
‘are shown according to the angles on the monthly high and low and
weekly high and low charts.

Always camsider the distance a stock is from its base
or beginning point when it breaxs any important angle or crosses .
any important angle. The farther avay from the base, the importart
the change in trend, whether this be crossing an angle from the top
or breaking under an angle from the bottom.

Eich stock works out its own square according to its ex-

treme high and low points or, the square of its tops. For ex:mple:

U. S. Rubber-- 143 was the total high to measure the width; then
“= move over 143 spaces or 143 months to the angle of 90° down und di-
vide up the square, as I have dme on the monthly high and low chart.
You cun see how it worked out to the 1/4 of its square, 1/2, 3/4, 1/3,
2/s, ete. t will require 143 months to pass out of the square, or
il years und 11 months. .This perioc of time will end in fecenver,
1931, which will be en important point to watch for a change in trend
on U. S. Rubper.

WHY OEOLETRICAL ANGLES WORK ON STOCKS

specail

Why is the 90° angle the strongest angle of ally Recause
it is horizontal or straight un and straight dom.

Bane.

” Whet is the next strongest anglg to the 90° angle? The
- 180° anzle hecause it is square to the ¥O angle, being 90 from the
90° angie.

126
127

“hut Lo tle next strongest anzlo to the 180° anglo?7 270
bocause it io in opponition to 90, or 180° from tro 90° angle, which
equals 1/2 of’ tho circle, the strongest point.

What is-tho next strongest anzle after 2707. 360 because it
ends tho circle-and sets baciz to the beginning point and is opnosite
“160° or half-way point, or the angle which equals 1/2'of the circlo.

” What anglos are next strongest to 90, 180, 270 and 3607
120° and 240? docause they are 1/4 and 2/3 of the circle. 120 is
90 plus 30, which-is 1/35 of 90. 240:is 180 plus 1/3 or GO, which
makes thosc strong angles, especially strong for meusuremonts of time.

What angles are next in strength?.-45, because it is 1/2
of 90, and 155 because it is 90 from 45, and-225 because it is 45
from 180, and 515 because it is 45 from 270. -Phe angle: of 225: is
180 from 45 and the.angle.of 315° is 180 fra :135. -

The angles of 90, 180, 270 and 360 form the first in-
portant cross, known as the Cardinal Cross. The angles of. 45, 135,
225 and 315 form the next important cross, which is known as the

Fixed Cross. These angles are very important for the measurements
of time and space and volume..- :

why is the angle of 223°.stronger than oe ge Because it
is twice as much, being the same reason that a 45° angle is stronger
than a 223. Again the angle of 67$ is 13 times 45, therefore quite
strong when anything is moving up toward 90°. : 783 io stronger than
673; Decause it is 7/8 of 90 and therefore one of the strongest ‘points
tefore we reach 90-and important to watch both on time, space and

volume. Many stocks have important moves and make tops or bottons.
around the 78th to 80th week, month.or day.

why are the angles of'1/8 of a ofrcle most important for

time and space measurement? Pecause we divide $1 into'1/4, 1/2, and
1/8 parte. We use 25¢ or one quarter, 50/ or 1/2 dollar, and long
years ago we had 123¢ pieces. But the most important firures of our
basis of toney are the four quarters, but we douse the 1/8 psrt or
12¢ in 2ll.caloulations. Stock fluctuations.are based on 1/8, 1/4,
3/8, 1/2, 5/8, 3/4, 7/8 and.the whole figure, Therefore, any space
measurement, as well as time, will work out:closer to these figures
whon Crenged into angles of time than:1/3 or 2/3 points for the.sixzple

‘reason that’ the fluctuations moving in 1/8 proportion must case out

closer to these figures. Figuring $100, or par, as & basis for -atock
jprices and changing these prices to degrees, 12% would.equal 45°,

25 would.equal 90°, 374 would equal 455°, 50 would equal 180°, 62%

vould egual 225°,.75 would equal-270°, 823 would equal 315°, and 100
would equal 360°. ;

Yor example: When a stock sells.at 50 on the 180th day,
woek or ronth, it 1s on the degree ‘of.itea time angle. On February 1,
1915, U. Se Steol:made a low at 38, which 4s olosest to a price of
57k, which 1s 3/8 of 100 and equals a 135° angle... Steel was 14 years
old or 168 months old on February 25,:19165: and hit the angle of 135°

=z
—

a a oe |

fem’ —

!

|
aae

Vhic: showed tiawt Steol wasn tohind timo, tut that Lt won tn vw atronc
position holding at 38 ahove the anglo of 135°, or the prico of SThe
Then wnen Steel crocsed 200, it equalled 2 circles of 360°. ‘*-hon

it advanced to 261%, 41t was. closest to G2\ in tho third 100 or neurest
tho 225° angle. It was tno strongest anglo after it crossed tho
half-way point or 180° angle. Steel's half-way point on the third
hundred wos 250; 262, would be the next point, or 5/8 point, which,
equals 225°.

Under the instructions for the Master Timing “Anglos, you
will find hov far ench timing angle had .moved from the time St.cel
was incorporated up‘to the time it made oxtreme top. Study these
timing angles.and you will.see what happens when each of the timing
ungles reach 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, 90, 120, 135, 1574, 180, 210,
225, 240, 270, 300, 515, 330, 345, and 360 months, the oquivelent
of 3c0°. Under the Master Timing Anglos we also show you what
hsppens when timing angles #!5, 6,.7, 8, and 9 cross the other tining
Ongles, or the place where they wero at the time Steel was incorpo-
rated. Of course these samo rules can be appliod to any othor stock.
You can sco what happens when cach of these Master Timing Angles
returns to the same place it wus at the time Steel was incorporated,
or to the same place .whon any oextrome high or low price is reached.
“You Will lcarn when theso Naster Timing Anglos return to the same
place or to the same angle or degree from which they started. There-
fore you will know the exact measurements of cyclos according to
noving enerry. The instructions on tho Mastor Timing Anglos give
you the cause of all market movements-and they can be worked out
ehead as fak as the yoar 2000. Tho figures which we will use are
figures made by the United States Government astronomers and are
therefore absolutely accurate. A careful study of all these Ligures
and @ comparison of the movements of the various stocks will om- -
vince you of their value.

Nov TO USE GEOMFTRICAL ANGLES

iy Method of operating in the Stock Markot.ia ull based
on matnematics&l points or geometrical angles. The Resistance Levels
are all geometrioal angles because they are 1/8, 1/4, 1/2, 3/¢, 1/3,
2/3, etc., which are proportional parts of'a circle whether large
or amall and, therefore, represent geometrical: angles.

There are three important. factors to consider, price, ‘tine
eané spsco moveirrents. For example, when the price reaches 45, it
meets resistance tecaouse it is equal to a 45” angle. Then when the
nricé breaks a 45° angle, regardicss of whether the price is at ¢5,
67, 96, 155, 180 or anywhere else, it weakons tho position and equals
a resistance anglo,. but 4s more important when a long wars from tne
base. ‘ine distance the stock breaks the angle of 45° orm uny other
ancle from tne base is tho most important. For example, many tincs
a stock will rest on the angle of 45° in its early-stages when ad-
vancing, thon later in reaction rests on it again, then have a pro-
~ longed advance, react'and- rest on the 45 angle again, and then hit

128

Speroyy PL
a higher level, vrouk the 45° anzle tho fourth timo, which places

{tt in un cxtrecely weak position because it is so fur away Lronm

the base Gnd so much timo has olupsod since tho stock made low
level. Roverse this rulo in wu bour iurkot or a declino and don't
torget to considor that tho. Monthly and Weolly high and low charts
&re the most important when Ongles uro vroken. Daisy charts cun
break ungles anu recovor thon and it is 4mpossible for a daily ‘high
and low chart to maintain an angle of 45° for a very long poriod

of time excopt when the final grand rush comes at the end of lAg

bull campdigns.

_ Suppose at tho time'‘a stock-breaks a 45° angle that it
{so at 135, and on tho 155th month.: This would be at a strong Re-
siotance tevol breaking @ strong angle, and striling and breaking
a strong Sngle according to time. This would be time and space
balancing at Resistance Levels, or seomotirical angles, and would
indicate a big decline ‘to Dak tonee * Reverse the same rule at the end
of a bear campaign.

After considering the three important factors, Resistance:
Levels, time and geometrical angles, the fourth and next very in-
portent factor is the volume of sales at tops or bottoms. Sales
increase near the top and decrease near the bottom, tnat is, when
a tear campaign has run for a long time and liquidation hus about
run its course, the volume of pales decrease, which is an indicution
that the market is getting ready to make a change in trend,

VANADIUH STEEL, WEEKLY HIGH & LO! CHART, _VOLUME OF SALES.
————

This chart begins September 29, 1928. For each spsce 1/8
vide, T have used to ropresent 25,000 shareca. For examplc,. during
tho “eek ending geptember 29, 1928, sdles were 26,600 shares and
the hish wes 85 and the low 76 which 1s represented by 1/8. The
$axie with the following week, wnen sales were 25,000 shsres or less
and the stock remained in a -nxrrow trading range put gradually worked

p until the week ending October 27th, whon the volume of sales wus
10,400 shares-and the stook advanced to 88%. I made the space 4
wide to represent 100,000 shures. Then note November amen or the
weele @nding November loth, when the stook advanced Sraa 84+ to 108,
soles wore 238,900 shares. The following week, sales wore, 118,400
shores and the price only went 3 points higher. Then the stock
broke the angle of 45° and deolined to 85. During the week onding
Deceriver @th, and the. following week, the price was around this
saise level, holding above the angle of 4x 1 from the bottom, and
fuiling to "set puck to the low reached during the week ending De-
combor 10th. The volume of'‘sules on.this docline was small. For
tho week ending December 22nd, sales were only 25,000 eanuees Then

the stock started up again.

During the week ending January 1%, 1929, sales were
138,800. The following woek salcs' were 61, 200. and the next week
with. the stock getting only 4; point, lower, sales. ‘were only 25,Q00
sharss, when folioved a hujok rally ending. in ‘the week. of. February
9th wlth sales of 175j000 shares, rhf{s wastop. A. quick reation

129
followed vith nalos of 74,200 shuria. In tho Following wook, the-
bottom Wao uround tho samo levol with salos of 155,000 shiurwo.
During tho week onding March 2nd, sales were 51,500 shares. Thon
followed two woeks of small volume, 355,500 shuros and $2,200

shares. ero the stock asain broke under the angle of 227, or 2x1
from the level of September 29, 1928 and a doclino followed.

Rotton was reached at 68 on the woek onding June lst, when saolcsa
were only 33,700 sharos. The following woek sales wore only 27,000
shures which indicated that liquidation was not heavy and had run
{ts course, Tho stock rallied to 97 during the week ending July 20th.
The volume of sales was only 48,700 shares, not’ enough volume 1.0
{ndicate that the buying was strong enough to force the stock highor
at that time. A decline followed and the volume of sales wos small.
Bottom was reached during the week ending August l0th-at 774.

During those weeks the sales run 25,000 or less, petting down to
8,800 during the week ending August 3lst.which indicatod that there
was not much stook for sale at this price and that somo one was.

just taking what was offered. ;

During the week ending September 14th, the stock vas
rushed up to 100 on sales of 138,400. Note thut it fuiled to cross
the top of Avril 6th, and that both of these tops wore undor t):e
heavy volume of February 16th and 25rd, which indicated the big
aistribution that took place between 104 and 115 was by people who
dia not intend to buy the stock back for 4 long time and that when
the stock approached the level of 100; they sold heavily again.

Puring the week ending September 28th, .a decline folloved
on small volume, but the angle of 45° was broken and the stock con-
tinuea to work lower. The volume increased during the week ending
October 26th to 56,600 shares. Tho following weok it was 50,600
shares, indicating heavy liquidation at this time, Then during
the week ending November 9th and 16th, sales dropped -to 17,200
shares and 29,000 shares. Final bottom was reached on November 15th
at 3272. Then a rally followed up to -the week ending Tecembhcr 14th,
but the valume of sales was small only getting up to 31,000 sheros
&nd on the top week 21,000 shares, f reaction followed but the
voluxe of sales wes still smaller, 12,3500, 11,500, and 15,800 shures.
The tottom was reached during the week ending December 21st, when
sales were 19,000 shares, then two narrow weeks on the side with
tre total volume not exceeding 25,000 shares. ‘This indicated that
tne stock was thoroughly liquidated and was getting ready to’ go
hisher, but the week ending February 1, 1930, when the stock crossed
the high of December 14th, volume of sales increased to 92,000 shares.
Tren during the week. of Fobruary 8, there was a small reaction, but
tre volume of sales was only 23,000 shares. The advanced was ro=
sumed the folloving week and sales reached 62,400 shares. The next
weex the sales were 48,300 sharos.. Then during the week ending
varch 1, there was a small reaction but the volune of sales were
only 36,500 shares which indicated: that the buying was better than
the selling, and that thers was no heavy selling pressure yet. Tne-
advance was resumed’and the volume pf sales inoreased everv week

as i

until tho wool ending March 29, whon tho stock sold ut 1244 with

nA voluxe of sales. of 206,000 shrres. This was tiie largost volwnao
of sules of any time since Novombor 1928, u reaction of 20 points
followed, vut during the week ending April Sth, oulos were -only
83,600 shores. In, the following week the stock made, a higher bote
tom showing that the market had not yet reached top.

‘During tho week onding April 19th, sales wore 184,600
shares ‘and during the week onding April 26th, sales were 258,100
sharos. “ith. .the stofKup 105 points from the’ extrezo low, and the
volume of sules almost equalling the total amount of stock out~
stunding, WSs 8 plain indication that top was being reachod for a
big reaction, During the week ending Kay Srd.a big decline followed
sulcs renched 304,000 shares, an angle, of 45° from the low at 103%
was first troken, than’the angle of 45 from ‘373 was trdcen und the
stgck Coclined to 87 during the week: ending }iay 1LOth on sales of
$1Q,400 sharcs, breaking all-reoords up to that time. It got dom
near the angle of 22%-,.or the angle of 2.x 1 from the low .of 37%.
It was a big reaction for two weeks veriod of time and ‘came Gown
57 points. Figuring your low of .573:to the high of 1432, gives a
half-way voint of 90 3/8. The atook declined 3°3/8 pointa boyond
this. This was due to the large volume of’ sales and the momentum.
However, often a stock will go 3 3/4 points beyond the half-way
point and then recover, especially if it has had a big cecline.
The greater the decline in number of points, the more allowance
can te made for fluctuations wround the main center or half-way.
point and, of course, vanaditua with a very small volume of float-
{ng supply of stook makes faster moves and wider range than a stock
of large volun.

—~

| During the week ending Kay 10th, the volure of sales o7
242,400 shares and the price crossed the top of the following vweek-
and advanced: to 118}. Whe.following week it advanced to 120% on a
sales of 248,600 shares, showing that the volume of trading was in=
creasing on the way up but the price. .was not {ncreasing:in propor-
tion.

During the week ending May Slat, the stock reacned 124
on volume of sales of 135,700 shares, an indication that the sell~-
{ng was better than the buying and that when-the price level ap~-
proached where distribution started, it shovod thet there wis again
the very best of selling. a

|

L_'

During the week ending June 7th, the price advanced to
125. Figuring the top of 1433 to the low of 87, .tho 2/3 points wss'
at 1263. Then figuring the total value of the stock 1453, we find
the 7/8 point at 125 3/8. This made 125 a very strong Resistance
Levol becouse it-was at the 7/8 point, of total value, and close —
to the 2/3 point on the: fluctuating moves. Another: reason why 125

woo a strong Resistance Level 1s because.25 is 1/4 of 100.

a

a

131
132

muring tho weelk onding June Thh, vansdium broxe tle
angle of 45° from the low of 87 .on Noavy volurxc, tho totul oulos
for tho woek hetngz 257,100. The prico got down to 100 and restad
on tho anvlo of 222°, or the anzlo of 2% 1-fran 4374- On Juno 9th,
vanedium brolee 100 and, of course, wus under the anglo of 2 x 1 and
doclined to 893, this time gotting support around tho ‘gravity center,
or half-way point, from 373 to 1433. Howover, Vanadium is in a weak
position ov angles aoco-ding to tho volumo chart, and in a weak poe
sition on unglés according to the weekly chart,- without volurs,
ena the Konthly high and low chart’ and nothgrg but.a rdlly is indi-~-
eeted at this time. However,.if it sar hold for a’while and not. -
treale the low of 387 on May 10th,-it will indicate a better rally,
probably 1/3 to 1/2 of the recent decline.

Fron the low on.tioventer 15, to the high in April, the
total volume et sales was 1,672,600 shares figuring 25,000 to each
1/8 space to move over ouch wool would hring this over to tne 67th
space, which I have marked, and ‘you will see from the voluze chart
that this runs over which is due to tho fact that some wocks ‘volune
did not equal 25,000,000 shares. , ve havé to register the top and
hbottow und this throws us, out a little on balance. In the weeks of
Vay 3rd and 10th, the total volune was 614,000 shares, bringing the
qrend total up to that time to 2,282,000 which brings it to spece
Sl, on the week ending May 10th and puts our-volume chart 6 spaces
too far over. jote that tho. voluro of these two weeks was shout
1/5 of the total volume from’37g to 143 3/4 and, of course, wipéd
out half of the advance. Therefore, it is only natural that a
réliy should follow hecause the decline was too fast according to
tine. Bringing the total.number: of. sules up' to the week ending
June 7, we have 3,170,800 shares.-whis would bring us to spece 126,
marked in red ink, and the way we have the voluze chart, it is -8
spaces too far over. wherefore, the volume for the week ending
June 7th, With the space movement rested exactly on the angle of
2x 1 from 37%, and 101 to 100% would strike up against this ‘angle
on the week Seginning June Sth. The price on June. 9th was 1012,
and the stock declined to 894. ‘After a stock gets away from a
narrow serics of fluctuations with srall volume and keep your:
volume chart exact, so 4s your angles will worl: out better.

KMONTRLY VOLUME CHARTS ON TOWV-JONES THIRTY
INDUSTRIALS FROM JUNE 1921 to May 1950

A study’ of this volume. chart Will prove very interesting
and, valuuble. You can see that in June, July and August, 1921,
the volume of sules was down ta around, 10,000,000 to 15,000,000
sher.s per month. In March 1928, sales reached: 80,000,000 per
montn for the first time in history. From.this time'-on the volure
of sales was very large, with this group of stocks working higher -
right along from the reuction in June 1928 when the price was 194
to the top-in Septerber 1029 when the price reached :381, there was
never more than one monthts reaction and at no time. did the aver=
apenp Urea lO solnata.unter a previous mo:mh's bette. Tlie, voli.

of sslo0n ‘lnercavod enormously in Octotor, 1920, una continued la: f°
in Novortor, Docombor, and in Lact, right On up until Augunt, 1929,
whon sal0s wore again ovor 100, 000, 000 sharon, and tho month of
Soptombor sales wero over 100, 600, 600 sharcs; sco how tho picturo
looks with this onormous volume at the top and then in Octobor, the
first tims since May, 1929, tho prico broke under the levol of -the
previous month, showing that tho trend. had turned downs All records
for voiumo of sales was broken in the month of Octcbor,' when sales
roached 141,000,000. In the final reaction in Novonber, or the
last wave of liquidation,’ sales dropped down to around 80,000,000.
Then tho prico workod up every month, making higher bottoms and
higher tops With a fairly large volume, until March, 1930, when the
voluze of sules reached 90,000,000. In April, the total * volume of
solos reached 111,000,000 shares , a very smal gain in prico. In
tho early part of "May "the price broke under the bottom of the month
of April, which was the first timo since the low was reached in
Novoembcr, snd a sharp declins followed. The volume of sales ror.
the month of May was heavy, reaching 80,000, 000; then continued in
June on fairly heavy volume, with tho price ” petting down to.250-

on June 9th. ‘This movement on volume from November, 1929 to April,
1930, shows a rally in a bear market.

Mote the bottom from January, 1929 to May, 1929, ard that |
the rally in April just brought prices up. under this heavy volune
of sales whore distributim took place in 1929. Note that the scale
on this chart is 2 points to each 1/8 of an inch instead of 1, for
in considering the angles from the low in August, 1921 and the low
in November, 1925, the angles are doubled in value, tnat is, the
Suele of 2 x 1 equuls the angle of 45° and the angle of 4x 1
equals tho angle of 2x 1 or 223°. for example, the angle of 2x1
from the low in June, 1928 oquals the angle of 45°. Note that the
price rested on this ‘angle in May, 1929, and that it wes broken for
the first time in October, 1929 and the big decline followed. Note
that the an ease of 4x 1 from August, 1921, which is the equal of the
angle of -223°, or 2x 1, fairly in April, "1930, come right up under
this aBaglie. Then consider the next angle of 4 x 1 from November,
1925 , which is also equal to the angle of 224°, notice prices in’ varch
and April got slightly above this angle, but that, when the price
opened in Wiays 1930, it drbpped under this angle and oenen broke the
angle of 45° from Novenber, 1929 and the angle of 45° is really the
angle of 2x 1, or 224°, counting tho basis of the chart being ot
the rate of 2 spaces for one. Then the angle of 2x 1, fron November
1929 i5 equrl to the angle of 45°. This angle crosses "at 248 in June
1950, the same plece where the angle of 2x1, from the carner of the
top of October, 1919, angle of 2x1, or 45 as it is drawn across
there, crosses, making 248 a very. important point. -Also noto that
tro low in January, 1930, was 246. ‘If this angle is broken and this
low of 246, of January, is broken, 1t will 4ndicate very much lower
prices for "these AaVOTAZEB.

FAST ADVANCE S_AND PAST DECLINES

Why do stooks thet have fast advances, reverse Poe
and have sharp, quick declines before breaking the angle of 673°

ot ee Gee Hee! Be ee En! EL ' . ©.
or tho 48° angio on tho monthly and weekly charto?

ct is. bocuuse tho largo volume of soles movos tho pri-
cos ovor until tho 45° angle is "peally brolcon at a vory high
icvol, whicn oan be scon by making tho combination timo, space
and volume Cchmrt. Tho volumo chart shows that the angle is hroken
whilo the tine chart, which only shova one space for each.month
or wook, coon not olow tho’ anglo hbroicon.

ro REE! Beis can) =z ay

Por example, mako up a volume .chart on U. S. Stoel
weekly from liay 31, 1929 to date, and you will soethat it broke
so sharply after the high in Soeptembor, 1929, because the volune broke
the angle befcre the angles wore braden. by the woekly or monthly -
chart.

We ure ‘sending you Vanadium woekly from 1929 to date with
wolumo. This will show you how the stocl: works when volnme of! sales
is charted with time end space.

Yhy do stocks take such a long time to recover’after a
long decline snd romain. so long at low levels?

Because the volume gets so small near the bottom treat it
requires a long time to overcome the square of distance. “hen &
stock declines 100 points or mare in two or threo months, for ex~
ample, we Will say exactly'100 points, then to overcoe tne squcere
of aistance at a low level, it requires 100 months. “A stock nas to
sguero itself on tho weekly, monthly and daily high and low chart.
fhe lover the price crosses the 45° angle, the stronger the position
of the stock and the highor the stock is and the greatest distance .
from the base, or beginning point when the 45° angle is broken or,
in fect, any other neh the weaker the stock is.

why do stocks often cross the 45°. angle on the daily,
weckly or monthly high and low: chart, then have: an advance for a
short period cf time, decline and rest on the 45° angle?

1

It is because when they cross the 45° angle the first

time, they save crossed it belore they, have run out or overcaze
the squfre of distance. oinerefore, on the secondary reuction,
when they rest on the 45° angle, it is at a time when they havo
reached the square’ of distance, ami after that time a greater ade
vance followvs.....Reverse -this rule at the top of a bull merket.
Tis accounts for the stocks having a sharp, quick decline from
the top 2nd then udvancing and making a slightly higher top or a
scrics of slightly lower tops, working over until it overcomes
the sqyare of distance at & comparatively high level and breaks
the 45° angle, then.a fast detline follows.

— = = fics)

Whe t rule should be fotlowed when stocks make higher
pottoms and lower tops?

134
‘3 ufevako advance and mako higher bottoms on the montne
iy, “ookly: or dually chart, you should always draw angles fron
hishor bottoms. Then whon you roach the last section of a bull -
markot, and those important angles aro broken from the last bot-
tom, you lmov that the trend has turned down, Apply this’ sarc rule
as a market doclines. Draw your angles from oach lowor top and
watch your angles until the stocks again cross the 45° angio from |
a second, third, or fourth lower top. .The second lower top, or

second highor bottom {3 ‘always very important to draw: angles fron,
ond to measure time. from, as woll.

Wnen ea stock is in a very weak, or.u vory strong posi-
tion, it will always show it by its position on angles, end a
volumd chart, made up eccording tothe proper spscing ith -volune,
that is, considering the total number of sharss, will show when

the stock is in a strong or weak position and show whether buying

or solling predominates, onabling you to determine whether supply
is increasing, or whotner domand is decreasing.

‘HAT RULE TO USE WHEN IN DOUBT

When you are in doubt about the position of a stock end
do not know whet its trend is, you: should, of course, not trade in
it. “ait until it shows by breaking resistance level, or crossing
a resistence level, or until it crosses an important angle, or .
breaks an important angle before deciding which way it is going to
move, especially after it has been in a long deadlock, or ina
sideways movement, cs referred to.in "iall Street Stock Selector.”
43 a general rule, when a change in trend .takes place of inmportence,
che volume of sales will show it: Tho volume of sales usually in=
creases when @ stool starts to advance from low levels, or from
Gullness, and the same after a long period of dullness at a nigh
ievol, when activity starts on the Gown side, the voluxe of sales
incresses. When a stock starts up and is ina strong position,
it will, shov it on angles by keeping ahove strong angles from the
botton’ Tho same when it starts to decline. Tf it is in a: very
weax position and’ going very fast, it. will show it by the position
ox angles, that is, dropping below and keeping. below strong angles,
“ith tne dally, weelly and monthly high and low chart, the in-
portant angles cannot be orossea at extreme low levels, until proper
tine ras elapsed, noither can important angles be broken at hi
ieveis until sufficient time has elapsed. Therefore, the angles
are very important because when brdcon they usually mean that the

tire has run out, whether you know it or not, &nd a change in:
trond will take place. . “

. MASTER "12" CrmRr

The MASTER CHART is the Square of "12" or.12 x 12, mak=
iag tne first square end at 144. Tha Second Square of ."12" enis
at 2&8, the Third Square of "12" at 432, and‘the Fourth Square at

576, which will .cover’ most’ anything that you want, but you can make
up 2s rany more squares as you. want.

This chart may be used ani applies to anything-=- TIME,

135

rere ee eS

he te Be Le £." t.’ £..'
= eS le =—l

136

SPACE OR VOLUME, the numbor of points up or down; daya, wooks,
months and yoars.

On SqQuaoro No. 1, which runs from 1 to 144, I havo dravm
the finer anglos to show the grand-center or strongest Resistance
Point in oach minor.square. The-minor conters, which are tho strong-
est for minor tops and bottoms aro 14, 17, 20, "eS, 50, DS, 56, 59,
66, 89, 92, 95, 122, 125, 128, 151.

The major center is where tho strongest rosistance is
met. These numbers are 66, 67, 78, ani 79. Stocks going up or
cominz down to these prices wil meet with stubborn resistance. The
next strong angle is the_ 45°, ond the numbers af’ greetcest resistance
are 14, 27, ot Os 63, 66, 79, $2, 10S, 118, 131, and 144. The othor
ecisgonal 45° angle from 12 is equally strong. The numbors are 12,
23, 34, 45, 67, 78, 89, 100, lll, 122 and 1335.

Tho numbors which are cut by tho 45°.angles thru the
center of cach of the 1/4 squares are next in strength. These
numbers are 7, 20, 45, 46,,59, 72, 61, 56, 39, 28, 17 and-G, ard
on tho other side of the Square ; after’ you pass’ the half-way point,

these numbers aro 75, 86, 99, 112, 125, 158, 159, 2123, 117, 106,
95 and 84. <

The numbers at the tops and bottoms of the squares are

_Amportant prices for important tops and bottoms to be made beceuse

thoy are @position numbers and @re equal to the half-way point.
These numbers for Square No. 1 are 1, 15, 25,.57, 49, 61, 75, 85,

97, 109, 121, 155. The top numbers are je, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, a4,
96,-108, 120,132 and 144. ae

The opposition angle, which runs thru the center of the
Square, from east to west, equally dividing it, is ono of tke very
strong angles because it equals one-half... Any” stock moving up or
down and reacning these prices Will meet with resistance and: maxe
tovs or bottoms. These numbers are 6, 7, 18, 19, 30, 31, 42, 435,
54, 55, 66, 67, 78, 79, 90, 91, 102, 105, 114, 115, i26, "127; 138,
159.

Rorember, when anything: nas moved three sections over
from the besinning, it reaches the square of its own place, Which
is the first strong résistance. When it.has moved six sections
ever, it reaches’ the opposition, or what equals the half-way point
or its ovn plece and. mets still stronger resistance. lioving over
nine vlaces or sections from its own place, it reaches tho 3/4 point,
enotser square. Tho. 8th and 9th sections are the strongest and
herdcst points to pass because thio is the "death" zone. The next
ana still stronger is the 12th section or column which-ends at 144.
Anything getting into this section meets the strongest ‘resistance
but oncs it moves out ot .this Squere and gets-as much as 5 points
into Square #2, that is, making 147, will indicate much higher, But
after rocching this, it should not drop back 3 points or to 141 in
Square #1.

Vhon O stock gots into tho Second Square of "12", it
has {faster tiovos, and Wnen tho timo or number of months from any

bottom or top movoa into tho Socond Square, it ia an indication
of faster wovoes, Both up and dam,

Apply the same rule to tho Srd, 4th, Stn and Gin
Squares, In tho Srd-and 4th Squares of tho Haster "12", you will
fim thet mestof the big bull and boar campaigns culminate, when
mousured by months, ‘which detormines the:division, according to
tino. <All o the othor rules givon you to:spply to Space movorents,
angles and time, can bo used’ wlth tho Kaoter "12" tubiles.

SQUARE OF NINE .

. You havo alroady had’ the MASTER SQUARE OF TYELV=
exploinod, which ropresents ‘days; weeks, months and yoers, and the
mezsurco-“ts of TIME in tho Squares of Twelve or the Square of tho
Circlo. ,

The ‘SQUARE OF NINE is very important because nine digits
are used in measuring evorything, and we cannot go beyond 9 without
starting to repeat-and using the O. If we divido 360” by 9, we -get
40, which'measures 40°, 40 months, 40 deys, or 40, weoks, and snows
why bottoms and tops. often come out on these anglbs neasured by
‘one=ninth of the total circle.

If we divide our 20-year period, or- 240 months, by 9,
we get 26-2/5 months, msking an important angle of 26-2/3°, scnths,
gays ov weeks. Nine tines? equals 81, Wehich completes tne Firs
Square of Nino. Note the anglos: and how thoy run from the mucin
center. The Second Square of Nine ts.completed at 162. Note hov
tnis is in opposition to the main center. The Third Square of
Nine is completed at 245, which would equal 243 months or 3 sonths
over our,20-year period andvaccounts forthe. time which often
olspses' pefore the chango in the Cycle, sometimes running.over
S sontiis or morc. The Fourth Square of Hino‘ends at 324.° “Hote
the angles'of 45° cross at'325;, indicating a. change in cycles here.
To complete tho 560° requires Fow Squeres of Nine ond 36 ‘over.
Hote that 361 equals a Squere of 19 times 19, thus proving the
grest value of the 'Squrre of: Nine in working out the important
anglos and proving‘up discrepancios,.

Roginning with "1" at the conter, note how 7, 21, 43,
75, 111, 157, 211, 273 and 543 all fall on a 45° angle. Goin
the othor way, note that 3, 15, 31,.57, 91, 155, 185, 241 end
507 fall on an’angle of 45°. nemerber there are always four ways
yeu can travel froma centor following an angle of 45°,'or én
engie' of 180° or,an‘anglo of 90°, which all equal about the sare
When measured on a flat surfaco. Note that 8, 25, 46, 77, 116
165, 218, 281 and-553 are all on an angle from the main center
olso note tnat’4, 15, 54, 61, 96, 159, 1905, 249 and 516 are on
on sagle from the main center, all of these being groat rosistanco
points and measuring out important time factors and angles.

Study tho SQUARE OF NINE vory carofully in connection
with the LiASTER T'ELVE and 360° CIRCIE CHART.

137

oe

:-

hs | Mee | Me | Be) A |
CHAPTER 8

How To FORECAST

138
139

II

1tOW TO FORECAST

By studying the Tables and rooords given of past cyoles and the time from tops
to bottoms and from main bottom to main bottom and the time from main top to main
top, you will be able to make up a forecast one year ‘or more in advance. Then,

by watohing your weekly high and low chart ana applying all of the other rules,
you oan tell when the main trend is changing.

‘After a bottom or top is made or at the beginning of any oalendar year, you
should go back over 3, 5, 7, and 10-year periods to see if the market is repeat-
ing and which one of these periods it is running closest to.

12, 20, AND 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

FROM MAIN TOPS TO MAIN TOPS OF BULL CAMPAIGNS

Year : Low Time From

1892 Mch. 4 and

Apr. 18 944
1895 Sep. 4 843 42 months Mch. 4, 1892
1899 Apr. 25 77.28 43 0 21 days Sep. 4, 1895

Sep. 5 77.61 48 Sep. 4, 1895
1901 Jun. 17 78.26 21, a 1204 Sep. 5, 1899
1906 Jan. 19 103. 53 on Jun. 17, 1901
1907 Jan. 7 96.37 ll 19" Jan. 19, 1906
1908 Oct. 2 100. 50

Nov. 19 100. 53 46 oH Jan. 19, 1906
1912 Sep. 30 94.15 36 OC«*SN Oct. 2, 1909
1916 Nov. 21 110.15 49 4 e2 " Sep. 30, 1912
1919 Nov. 3 119.62 35 On 14,0 Nov. 21, 1916
1923 Mch. 20 105.38 40 0 17 ou Nov. 3, 1919
1929 Sep. 3 386.10 77 =O" 140: Mch. 20, 1923
1933 Jul. 17 110.50 46 14,48 Sep. 3, 1929
1934 Teb. 5 111.80 $3 oo" 2" Sep. 3, 1929
1937 Mch. 8 195.50 | 37000 3.8 Feb. 5, 1934

43 19 0 Jul. 17, 1933

1938 Nov. 10 158.75 20 0 20

It is important to study the TIME PERIOD between each important top and the
next top,

During the period from 1892 to.1898 the time periods between the tops were as
follows: There were 2 at 53 months epart; 7 at 42 to 49 months apart; 4 at 35

to 40 months apart; 2 at 20 to 21 months apart; and 1 at 11 months, 19 days.

One of the groatest Bull Markets of all time ... Maroh 20, 1923 to Septembor
5, 1929 ... was 77 months. This was abnormal, unusual, and en extreme, but it
is well to kmow this time period because you may need to use it in the future.

From the above, you can see that most campaigns make tops between 3 and 4
years or between 35 and “49 months, only 2 oases running an extreme of 63 months
and 2 running out in 20 to 21 months and l in a little. less than a year.
Year

1893
1896
1900

1903

1907
1910
1911
1914

1917
1921
1923
1924
1932

1933
1934
1938

The market always moves down in a shorter period of time than it moves up.

is important, to study the distance between main bottoms in order to tell when the
next one should oome out.

FROM MAIN BOTTOMS TO MAIN BOTTOMS OF BEAR CAMPAIGNS

Jul.
Aug.
Jun.
Sep.
Nov.

Ww

wn
oA MO ®

Nov. 15
Jul. 26
Sep. 25
Dec. 24

Dec. 19
Aug. 24

Oct. 27
May 20.

Jul. 8

Oct. 21
Jul. 26
Mch. 31

Low |

623
284
53
53

42-1/8

53

73-5/8
73-5/8
53-1/8

66
64

B5z
88-3/8
404

82}
85
97%

34 months 13 days

46
49
40
37
48
32
46
39
48
36
44

26

33

104
97
15

24
44

Time

15
15
17
16

6
ll
10

28
5
2

il

18

13

18
5

From

Jul.
Aug.
Aug.
Jun.
Sep.
Nov.
Nov.
Jul.
Jul.
Sep.
Dec,
Dec.

Aug.

Aug.
Oct.
May

Jul.
Jul.
Jul.

26,
8,
8,

23,

23,
9,

15,

26,

26,

25,

24,

19,

24,

24,

27,

20,
8,
8,
8,

1893
1896
1896
1900
1900
1903
1907
1910
1910
1911
1914
1917
1921
1921
1923
1924
1932
1932

1932

It

There was only one period 49 months, 15 days apart; 6 at 44 to 48 months a-

part; 1 at 40 months; 6 at 32 to 39 months; 1 at 26 months; 1 at 24 months; and 1

at 15 months. Thus, you will see that more bottoms came out 3 to 4 years apart

than any other time period.

The greatest time period was from the bottom of Ootober 27, 1923 to the

bottom of July 8, 1932 ...

104 months, 11 days.

last bottom, May 20, 1924, to July 8, 1932 ... 97 months, 18 days.
extremes ocour at very rare intervals, but unless you know the greatest as well

as the least movement, you cannot do acourate forecasting.

140

The next period was from the

These great

—- - oH mo _- - _ ~- , = |

Moses

se
F-3

DOW-JONES 20 RAILROAD AVERAGES

FROM MAIN BOTTOMS TO MAIN BOTTOMS OF BEAR CAMPAIGNS

Year Low Time ' From

1890 Dec. 754

1893 Jul. 26 62 34 months Dec. 1890
1896 Aug. 8 42 35 i 18 days Jul. 26, 1893
1900 Jun. 23 73 46 u 15 8 Aug. 8, 1896
1903 Oct. 27 89-3/8 40 n 4 " Jun. 23, 1900
1907 Nov. 23 81-3/8 48 " 27 " Oct. 27, 1903
1910 ‘Jul. 26 105-5/8 32 " 5 Nov. 23, 1907
1911 Sep. 30 109-5/8 14 e 4 Jul. 26, 1910
1914 Dec. 24 874 38 " 24 " Sep. 30, 1911
1917 Dec. 19 70% 36 =C«*S Dec. 24, 1914

The greatest time period between main bottoms was 48 months, 27 days; next
46 months, 15 days; next 40 months, 4 days; next 38 months, 24 days. There were
4 at 52 to 56 months apart and one minor at 14 months apart. Again, you will
see that these important bottoms came at the end of 3 and 4-year poriods,

FROM MAIN TOPS TO MAIN TOPS OF BULL CAMPAIGNS

Year Low Timo From -
1886 Dec. 943
1890 May 99 41 months Dec. 1886
1891 Apr. 89 1 ee "May 1890
1892 Mch. 94% 22 on May 1890
1895 Sep. 4 924 4)" Mch. 1892
1899 Apr. 25 87 43 oo" 21 days Sep. 4, 1895
1902 Sep. 9 129.56 40” 15 0 Apr. 25, 1899
1906 Jan. 19 138.29 40 0 10 " Sep. 9, 1902
1906 Sep. 17 137.84 -° 9 0" Jan. 19, 1906
19086 Dec. 1l 137.56 51 Sep. 9, 1902
1909 Aug. 14 . 134.46 42 0 26 " Jan. 19, 1906
1912 Aug. 14 124.16 36 C+ Aug. 14, 1909
1912 Oct. 5 124.35 370 ON 21" Aug. 14, 1912
1916 Oct. 4 112,28 48 Oct. 5, 1912
= 1918 Nov. 9 92.91 25 5" Oct. 4, 1916
1919 May 26 91,13 318 2b) Oct. 4, 1916

There was one period between tops 51 months; one at 48 months apart; 6 at 40
to 45 months apart; 2 at 36 to 57 months apart; 1 at 31 months apart; 2 at 22
to 25 monthn apart; 1 at 11 months and 1 at 9 months apart. This again proves
that most of the tops oame out around 3 to 3-1/2 years apart and in extremes
around 4 years apart. <A few of them oame out around 2-year periods and only 2
ae at less than one year, again confirming the working out of the 10-year cyole.

141
142

1927

1928

1929

Nov.
Feb.

May

Sep.

"
"
"

zxsOQ seh caQg =

s,23 2

DOW-JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

TIMR FROM MAJOR AND MINOR TOPS TO MAJOR AND MINOR TOFS

40 months 17 days

ie
40
21
55
Minor top 11
44
46
47
36

38

84.

Last high 6
Minor top 25

35
Seoond top 6
Minor top 36

40

5

Minor top 10
15

21

34
40
81
76

Minor top LS

22
62
27
Minor top 27
29
36
12
39
Tinel top 118
82
77
36

9
6
4
1

Time

17
14

12

19
12

3

27
2
16
5
13
5
AE
Le
6
17
23

22
24
11

6
19
27

3
14

22

20
14
24

29

'
"
n

u

u

"
"
"

Oot.
Mch,
Feb.
Nov.
Feb.
May

Aug.

From

18,
4,
22,
5,
17,
19,

14,

13,
14,
11,

14,
20,
22,
28,

6,

3,

1892
1895
1896
1899
1901
1906
"

1909
1912
1909
1916
1927
1916
1919

1922
1923
1922
1924
1925
1923

1919
1920
1926
1925
1923

1926 .

1926

1926
1928
1926
1919
1922

1923°

1926
1928
1929
1929
1929

C7

Sie! ‘Teme! Gee hes: Le!
TIME FROM MAJOR AND MINOR TOPS TO MAJOR AND MINOR TOPS

1930 Apr. 17 Secondary top v 2 14°" . Sep. 3, 1929

] Bep. 10 Top of rally 4 24 0 Apr. 17, 1930

1931 Feb. 24 eo 0 Oo" al" Sep. 3, 1929

" " ‘10 8° 7 3 Apr. 17, 1930

| " n 5 8 460 Sep. 10, 1930

1931 Jun. 27 21 months 24 days Bep. 3, 1929

" " 14 «Cf 10 " Apr. 17, 1930

i " " 4 " Jul. 23, 1931

Nov. 9 Minor top 26 a 6 Sep. 3, 1929

" " 1s" 23" Apr. 17, 1930

" ” 6" 166" Feb. 24, 1931

] " " 4" 13" Jun. 27, 1931

1932 Moh. 8 30 =O" Sep. 3, 1929

" " e268 20 " Apr. 17, 1930

i Feb. 19 24 =" Teb. 24, 1931

Moh, 8 4 " ‘ Nov. 9, 1931

: Sep. 8 36 e 5 * Sep. 3, 1929

q a " 26 ee « Apr. 17, 1930

" " 24 =« 2" Sep. 10, 1930

" " 18" 15 " Feb. 24, 1931

j oo. 144°" ag 8 Jun. 27, 1932

" " 10 #4" 1" Nov. 9, 1931

« w 6 * : Mch. 8, 1932

| 1933 Jul. 17, 10" > * Sep. 8, 1932
Bep. 18 Lower top 12 . 10 * =! -

" " 2 Jul. 17, 1933

I 1934 Feb. 5 17 ~« Sep. 8, 1932

" " 6 " 19 +" Jul. 17, 1933

" 15 6 " Bep. 18, 1033

1935 " 18 19 =" 1" Jul. 17, 1933"

1 m Ls 12 e 1. = Feb. 5, 1934

1936 Apr. 6 Minor top 13 oO 19 +" Feb. 18, 1935

1937 Moh, 8 © go. CO" 5 8 Bep. 3, 1929

| " " 82. C=« 19 +" Apr. 17; 1930

noc oN 76 ~«O" Sep. 10, 1930

- " " 72 ig " Feb. 24, 1931

| " ® 54 «=O! Sep. 8, 1932

" " 43 19" Jul. 17, 1933

= 4 " 37, 2=«8 3 Feb. 65, 1934

] non 11060 ; Apr. 6, 1936

; Aug. 14 Seoondary top 49 Le = Jul. 17, 1933

- " " 42 " Feb. 15, 1934

i Oot. 29 7 " gi Moh. 8, 1937

" " 2" 15 8 Aug. 14, 1937

= 1938 Jen. 15 Minor top 10 u a = Mech, 8, 1937

u " 5" y 4 - Aug. 14, 1937

| Jul. 26 oe 1600" sy Mch. 8, 1937

n " 1.06" 110" Aug. 14, 1937

7 Nov. 10 20 2" Mch. 8, 1937
| u " 10 u 5 nt u " li
144

1893
1895
1896
1896
1899
1899
1900
1900
1901
1903
1906
1907
1907

1909.

1909
1909
1910
1912
1914
1916
1917
1919
1921
1923
1923
1923
1924
1929
1932
1937

Jul.
Sep.
Aug.
Aug.
Apr.
Sep.
dun.
Sep.
Jun.
Nov.
Jan.
Nov.

Nov. |

Nov.

Nov. .

Oct.
Jul.
Sep.
Dec.
Nov.
Dec.
Nov.
Aug.
Mch.
Mch.
Oct.

_ May

Sep.
Jul.
Mch.

DOW-JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

BULL CAMPAIGNS---MAIN BOTTOMS

TO MAIN TOPS

BEAR CAMPAIGNS---MAIN TOPS TO

MAIN BOTTOMS

low
high
low
low
high
high
low
low

624
823
284
28}
77.28
77.61
53.63
52.96
high 78.26
low 42.15
high 103
low 53
low 53
high 100.53
high 100.53
high 100.50
low 73-5/8

Jhigh 94-178

low 53-1/8
high 110-178
low 66
high 119~-5/8
low 64
high 105-3/8
high 105-378
low 65¢
low 88-3/8
high 386.10
low 40}
high 1954

1895
1896
1899
1899
1900
1900
1901
1901
1903
1906
1907
1909
1909
1910
1911
1911
1912
1914
1916
1917
191¢
1921
1923
1923
1924
1929
1929

1932

1937

1938

Sep.
Aug.
Apr.
Sep.
Jun.
Sep.
Jun.
Jun.

Nov. -

Nov.
Oct.

Nov.

Jul.
Sep.
Sep.
Sep.
Dec.
Nov.
Dec.
Nov.
Aug.
Mch.
Oct.
May

Sep.
Sep.
Jul.
Mch,.
Mch.

4
8

20

high
low
high
high
low
low
high

823
284

77.61
53.63
52.96
78.26
high 78.26
low 42,15
high 103
low 53
high 100.50
high 100.53
low 73-5/8
low 73
low 73
high 94-1/8
low 63-1/8
high 110-1/8
low 66
high 119-578
low 64
high 105-378
low 865%
low 88-3/8
high 386.10
high 386.10
low 403
high 1954
low 974

77.28

25 months 9 days

ll
32
36
14
12
12

8
28
26
21
22
24

8
22
23
26
26
23
13
22
21
18

ui
14
70
63
34
56
12

Time

u
u
'
n
"
u
"
"
“i
"
"
u
"
u
u
uu

4
17

28
19

24
23
10
27
17
4
i
6
23
4
24

14
21
24

Gees es

LK.’ ke L. LL.

a,

a — Gen’
ee

|

quscell

tian
| |

145

BULL CAMPAIGNS FROM BOTTOMS TO TOPS 1892-1939

There was one campaign 56 months apart; one at 36 months apart; one at 32
months apart; 4 at 24 to 28 months apart; 3 at 21 to 23 months apart; 1 at 18
months apart, 2 at 8 to 12 months apart. The greatest campaign ran from Ootober
27, 1925 to September 3, 1929 ,.. 70 months, 7 days. Next from the last bottom,
Moy 20, 1924, to Beptembor 3, 1929 ... 63 months, 14 days.

From the above, you will see that, except for the extreme move up to 1929,
there was only one other period that ran above 4 years. The groater number of
poriods lasted betwoen 2 years and 2 years, 4 months, only two periods running
out in less than one year and one running out in 1-1/2 years, again proving the
working out of the 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5-year periods in the 10-year oycle.

BEAR CAMPAIGNS FROM TOPS TO BOTTOMS

A Boar Market always runs out the samo number of points or more in a much
shorter period of time than a Bull Market. Like everything else that is going

down hill, gravity helps to pull it dom faster and momentum is geined faster on
the downside than on the upside.

The greatest Bear Market of all time lasted from September 3, 1929 to July 8,

19352 ... a period of 34 months, 5 days ... a decline of 345-1/2 points, the
greatest in history. The next periods were 2 campaigns of 26 and 28 months; 4
at £1 to 23 months; 6 at 11 to 14 months; 3 at 7 to 8 months. Thus, you will see

that the greatest Bear Campaign ran out in less than 3 years and only 2 ran a
little over 2 years, and 4 ran slightly under. 2 years and 6 ran 11 to 14 months,
about one-year periods, and 3 minor ones at 7 to 8 months apart.

This will help you to figure, after a market sterts down in a Bear Campaign,
how long it should run and by using your other tops and bottoms and time periods,
you oan tell about when it should run out. Before deciding that a Bear Market
has made a final bottom, apply all of the rules and wait for a definite change
in trend to the upside before deciding that final bottom has been reached.

DOW-JONES 30 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

BULL AND BEAR CAMPAIGNS

FROM TOP TO BOTTOM AND BOTTOM TO TOP

Points
Year Low or High Up or down Period of Time
1892 Mch. 4 and Apr. 18 high 944
1893 Jul. 26 low 624 32 16 months 22 days
1895 Sep. -4 high 82% 20 23. =C«t 9 4"
1896 Aug. 8 low 28} 54 11 J 4 "
1897 Sep. 10 high 65-7/8 27-3/8 13 us e *
1898 Moh. 23 : low 42 17-7/8 6 " 16 ="
1899 Sep. 5 high 77-5/8 - .35-7/8 17.—C~< OY iz
1900 Sep. 24 low 53 24-5/8 i #9 19 ="
1901 Jun. 17 high 784 254 Gg * 24 "
1903 Nov. 9 low 42-1/8 36-1/8 28. 23. ="
1906 Jan. 19 high 103 61 26 " io (8
1907 Nov. 15 low 53 50 ral 27
1909 Nov. 19 high 100} 47} 24 Le 4 "
1910 Jul. 26 low 73-5/8 26-7/8 8 7
1911 Jun. 19 high 87 13-378 io.6COU 24."
Sep. 25, low 73 14 So 8 6 *
1912 Sep. 30 high 94-1/8 21-1/8 pl 5 "
1913 Jun. 11 low 72-1/8 22 : 12 ="
1914 Mch. 30 high B33 11-378 9 5
Dec. 24 low 53-1/8 30-3/8 9 «© gs
1912 Sep. 30 to high 94-1/8
1914 Dec. 24 : low 53-1/8 41 26 Ll zo "
1916 Nov. 21 ; high 110-1/8 67 23 as
1917 Dec. 19 low 66 44-1/8 i2 ee"
1919 Nov. 3 high 119-5/8 53-5/8 ae Ci 149
1921 Aug. 24 low 64 55-5/8 21 " ox
1923 Mch. 20 high 105-3/8 41-3/8 30 5 24 "
Oct. 27 low 85 19-5/8 7." So 8
1924 Feb. 6 high 1014 154 3 tft po
May 20 low 88-3/8 12-7/8 3 u 14:°+«0
1929 Feb. 5 high 322 : 233-5/8 56 = ES wt.
" 16 low 295-7/8 26-1/8 11.0"
Mch. 1 high 321~1/8 25¢ 13
i 26 ‘ low 2964 24-1/8 a5
May 4 high 327 30} 39, #
u 27 low 290 37 25 "
Sep. 3 high 386 96 69 *
Oct. 29 low 230 156 56 *
n 3 high 272} 434 g
Nov. 13 low 195-3/8 78-1/8 iS »

146

a ee ee ee ol el el oe oe
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES - FROM OP TO BOTTOM AND BOTTOM TO TOP (Continued)

Year

1924
1929

1929

1930

1931.

1932

1929

1932
1933
1934
1936
1937

1932
1937

1934 ©

1937

1937

1938

1939

1937
1938

1937
1939

May
Sep.

Sep.
Nov.

Apr.
Dec.
Feb,

Jun.
u

Oct.
Nov.
Jan.
Mch,.
Jul.

Sep.
Jul.

Sep.
Feb.
Jul,
Oct.
Feb.
Jul.

Apr. -

Mch.

Jul.
Mch.

Jul.
Mch.

Jun.
Aug.
Mch.
Nov,
Apr.

Aug.
May

Aug.
Apr.

20

aomouaww

ow

27
sb
21
26

30

Qo

ag
14
31
10
aL

14
27

14
11

to

to

to

to

to

Low or High

low
high

high
low

high
low
high

. low

high
low
high
low
high
low

high
low

high
low
high
low
high
low
high
low
high

. low

high

low
high

low
high
low
high
low

high
low

high
low

88-3/8
386

386
195-3/8

2064
158}
196¢
120
157}
85%
1194
70
89%
404

386
40%

81$
494
110}
82h
111}
a5
163
1413

1954

40% |
195¢

85
1953

163
190}
97}
150%
120.07

1904
106}

190}
120.07

Points

up or down

297-5/8

190-5/8

101-3/8
138
Sey
76%
37h
72
84
493
194
49

3454

41

$2
61
28
29
26h
77
214
54

155

1103

324
27h

98

614
38-5/8

84

70-3/8

Period of Time

63 months 13

71

5 months 4
3 a 12
57
98
25
100
35
57
63
122

34 months 5

62

5 8 19

4 8 20

i 4

o 15

5" 21

zo. ll

24

10 «CS 8
56 u

31 a 10

71

58

12.- ". 23

fC ee. 10

5 1

8 13
20 u

days

deys
' F-10 -

INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES - FROM TOP TO BOTTOM AND BOTTOM TO TOP (Continued)

Year Low or
1939 May 10 high
" 17 low
Jun. 9 high
Ls 30 low

MINOR TIME PERIODS 1892-1939

The above Table gives the number of points up or down and the time periods
for major moves and minor moves of less than a year.
covering 8 to 9 months; 6 moves of 4 to 6 months; 2 moves of 7 months; and 5
moves of 3 months. This will show that you can watoh for changes in trend around
3 months and then again around 4 to 6 months; a few changes around the 7th month
and a greater number around 8 to 9 months. -Many fast Bull Markets and Bear Mar-

kets have run out in 8 to 9 months once they got away from the Breakaway Point.

MINOR MOVES OF 17 TO 36 DAYS

These periods are runs that last over 2 weeks and culminate at the end of a-
bout 5 weeks, From 1896 to 1959, or in a period of 42 years, 10 months, 24 days,
there were 204 moves on the averages running from 18 to 36 days.

moves either up or down.

For 1929, 1950, 1931 and 1939, when the market was very active, we have shown

High

134.66
128.35
140.75
128.90

Points

up or down

14.59
6.31
-12.40
11.85

Period of Time

29 "

i iT
23 0
21 u

There were 7 minor moves

Therefore, based on the

These were
This would mean that on an average every 2-1/2 months
there was a reaction or rally lasting 18 to 36 days.

average, when & market has advanoed 3 to 4 months, with only 10 to 15-day reao-
tions, you could expeot a reverse move that would run possibly 36 days or more.

the minor moves of 7 days or more.and the number of points advanoe or decline, to

help you oheck how far an aotive market will move in these shorter time periods.

148

tet etelEnr tian na Ome See =

1896
1898
1899

1900

1901

1902
1903

1904

1905

1906 °

1907

1908
1909

1910

1911

1913

1914

1916

DOW-JONES 40 INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES

FROM MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS TO MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS

Low

Aug.
Mch.
Dec.
Dec.
Jun.
Sep.
Jun.

Dec.
u

u

Dec.

Nov.
w"

Mch.
May
May

Jul.
Mch.
"
Nov.
u
"
"

Sep.
Feb.

Jul.

8 low 28}
25
18
18
23
24
23
12
12
12
15
9
9
9
12
18
22
22
3
13
14 and 25
14
15 final low
15
15
15
22 low of reaction
23:
23
8
8
8
26
26

- 25

25
25

« 22

11

- 24

24
24
24
24

a0

eee

”
a

19 months 17 days

40
20
46
49
6
24
64
44
12
87
67
37
4
18
12
18
30
32
40
34
48
42
135
115
10
15
5
il
16
26

5

32
46
36
14
20

34:

85
53
18
133
127
1G

1g

Time

10
23
15
16

From

Aug.
Aug.
Mch.
Aug.
Aug.
Dec.
Dec.
Aug.
Mch.
Dec.
Aug.
Mch.
Sep.
Nov.

"
May
Nov.

tt

"

Mey

Nov.
May

Aug.
Mch.
Nov.

"

Sep.
Feb.
Sep.
Nov.
Feb.

Nov.
"

Sep..

Jul.
Sep.
Jul.
Nov.
Jul.
Jun.
Nov.
May

Deu.
u

8,
8,

25,"

8,
28),
18,

25,

12,

25,

25,

22,

at.

24,

1896
1896
1898
1896
1896
1899
1899
1896
1898
1901
1896
1898
1900
1903 -
21903
‘1904
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1903
1904
1896
1898
1907
1907
1908
19909
1908
1907
1910
1907
1907
1908
1910
1911
1910
1207

. 1910

1913:
1903
1904
O14
1gl4
150

FROM MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS 0 MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS - 2

1917

1918

1919

1920

1921

1922
1923

1924

1925

1926

Low
Feb.
May

Dec.
"

'

"
Nov.

u
Deo.
Feb.

"
Aug.

"

"
Nov.

u

"

Feb.

Dec.
"

Aug.
"

"
nu
"

Nov.
Oat.

LL
u
May

Oct.
i}
"
"

Mch.

Nov.
nu

Mch.
"

May
Oct.

19
19
19
19
25
25

20
20
20

29

29°

29
11
ad
21
21
21
24

"24

24
24
24
27
27
27
27
20
20
14
14
14
14
30
30
30
24
24
30
30

. 30

19
19
19
19

low of decline

same low as 11/25

Minor bottom

and Dec. 22

and 25

Minor reaction
Last low

Time

25 months

28
20
36
121
188
aE
47

19
48
20
56
59
60

24
12
61
26

low of big decline 60

36
25
80
44
165
134
119
15
26
70
ll
33
18
25
ala
118
81
43
Li?
10
51
25
12
22
29
24
36
62
126

9 days

15

10

18

Onarnvou

18
17

20

10°

'"

From

Dec.
"
Apr.
Dec,

’ Nov.

Nov.
Dec.
Dec.

Jul.

Feb..

Dec.
u

Jul.

Dec.
nN

Nov.

Dec,
"

Nov.
Dec,
"
Nov.
Jul.
Sep.
Aug.
n

Dec.
Nov.
Aug.
Nov.
Aug.
Oot.
Dec.
Aug.
Oct.
May

Aug.
Oct.
Mch.
May

Oct.
May

Oct.
Aug.
Apr.

24,
24,
22,
24,
15,

19,
24,

2,
24,
19,
24,
30,
24,
19,
25,
24,
19,
24,
19,
25,
24,
19,
15,
26,
25,
24,
24,
19,
27,
24,
27,
24,
27,
24,
19,
24,
14,
20,

“24,

27,
30,
20,
27,
20,
27,
24,
22,

F-12

1914
1914
1916
1914
1907
1903
1917
1914

1917
1915
1917
1914
1914
1914
1917
1918
1914
1917
1914
1917
1918
1914
1917
1907
1910
1911
1921
1921
1917
1922
1921
1922
1921
1923
1914
1917
1921
1923

1924

1921
1923

1925 . -

1924
1923
1924
1923
1921
1916

Ta ll ll a = = ~-_= = == a Ce

FROM MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS "0 MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS - 3

Low

—

1927 Jan.
u

u
"
"
u
Oot.
u"
u
1928 Feb.
ot
Jun.
Dec.
Feb,
Jun.
Dec.
1929 Feb.
Moh.
May
Jul.
Aug.
Oct,
Nov.
Deo.
Oct.
Nov.
Oct.
Nov.
Oot.
1930 Jun.

Dec,

1931 Apr.
Jun.
Aug.
Oct.
Aug.
1932 Jul.

ut
ul
un
"
wu
u

25
25
25
25
25
25
22
22
22
20
20
18

20
18

16
26
27
29

29
13
20

»

29

and 29

and 10

Time

10 months

22
39
27
119
110
12
44
48
16
51
55
61
78
82
87
90
91
93
95
95
98
98
99
72
72
60
61
36
8
7
61
120
132
156
192
13
17
18
20
22
119
130
174
210
247
344
422
431

"
"
it
i"
"
n
"
it
"
"
u
u
u"
n-
"

_ 11 days
28

15

24
22

iz

16

20
26

17
15

10

"

From

Mch.

Oct.
tu
Feb.
Dec.
Oct.

Oct,

Aug

wate,

Dec.
u

Nov.
"

Apr.
Aug.

“Sg,

30,
30,
27,
14,

2,
19,
19,
14,
27,
19,
27,
27,
27,
24,
24,
24,
24,
24,
24,
24,
' 24,
24,
24,
24,
27,

"
14,

",
19,
29,

- 13,

24,
21,
22,
19,
24,
13,

. 2,

-16,
24,
15,

9,
19,
8,

1926
1925
1923
1924
1917
1917
1926
1924
1923
1926
1923
1923
1923
1921
1921
1921
1921.
1921
1921
1921 .
1921
1921
1921
1921
1923

u

1924
"
1926
1929
1929
1925
1920
1919
1917
1914
1929

F-14
FROM MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS TO MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS - 4
Low Time From
1932 Dec. 23 24 months Deo. 17, 1930
" " 36 =O "20, 1929 ©
n u ‘ 65 =o"! Nov. 24, 1925
u " 120 +#" 20 days " 27, 1922
1933 Feb. 27 7 OO" 19 +" Jul. 8, 1932
" w 26 " 10 " Dec. 17, 1930
" u 39 «8 4060 Nov. 13, 1929
" " 112 ~«0 Oct. 27, 1923
" " 137. =O 3 0 Aug. 24, 1921
Jul. 21 12 #" 3 4 Jul. 8, 1932
" " 43 0 24 Nov. 13, 1929
" u 120 «8 Jul. 31, 1923
Oct. 21 154 130 " 8, 1932
" " 34." 4 " Dec. 17, 1930
" " 47. 8 " Nov. 13, 1929
n a 120 «#2 Oct. 27, 1923
Jul, 21 4 W 24 Feb. 27, 1933
Oot. 21 Vd i 24 . u n u u
" " 3 Jul. 21, 1933.
1934 Jul. 26 24 " 1g 8 " 8, 1932
, Sep. aly 26 u 9 d '" . " i" ;
Jul. 26 17 8 Feb. 27, 1933 °
. & 12 0=«0 5" Jul. 21, 1933
" n 9 4 5 ou Oct. 21, 1953
1935 Mch. 18 12 #0 Mch. 27, 1934
" " 17, Oct. 21, 1933
" " 24. = Mch. 21, 1933
n " Py 19 =" . Feb. 27, 1933
" " 32.C«*SN 10 " Jul. 8, 1932
" n 120 «"! Mch. 30, 1925
1936 Apr. 30 130 1206 " 18, 1935
" " ; 25 u" u 275 1934
it li 37 u " 21, 1933
" " 38. ~C«‘ Feb. 27, 1933
Dec. 21 2 4 Dec. 19, 1935
" " 24 0 " 19, 1934
u u 36 " u 19, 1933
1937 Jun. 17 51 8 21" Feb. 27, 1933
" n 59 "§ gg 8 Jul. 8, 1932
Oct. 19 48 " = Oct. 21, 1933
Nov. 23 32. 2=«&S 5 Mch. 18, 1935
" " 39 «8 28" _ Jul, 26, 1934
u " 49 '.° Ock. 21, 1933
u " 56 27 0" Feb. 27, 1953
" " 239 =O 4 " " "Dee. 19, 1917
. 1938 Mech. 31 4 oH 8 ou Nov. 23, 1937
u " 2520 Apr. 30, 1936
" " 3G «8 13 0 Mch. 18, 1935
ul " 48 i 4 uN uu re ee 1934

eee ee ee eee

152

\
FROM MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS ‘0 MAJOR AND MINOR BOTTOMS - 5

1938

1938

1938

1938

1938

1939

Low

Mech. 31

uu "
u "
n "
u nu
u u

Sep. 26

tw n

Nov. 26

u u
1 "
" "

Apr. 11

tt u
" t
ili "
" "
" "
u "
" u
" "

Gl months 4 days

68
117
121
132
199
245

11
24
43
60
84
108
119

5
24
48

59.

84
108
120

v
12
108

12
16
35
48
56
65
73
81
120

‘ime

23
13
11
9
if
12

10
27
13

60
26
18

ll
19
12
24
16
22
15

~ 16

"
tt
"
"
u

u
uN
"
ol
"

"
"
u

From

Feb.
Jul.
Jun.
Feb.
Mch.
Aug.
Bec.

Jun.
Apr.
May

u
Jun.
May
Jun.

Mch.
Sep.

Oct.

Sep.

Sep.

Mch.

Nov.
"

Mch.
Nov.
Apr.
Mch.
Jul.
Oct.
Feb.
Jul.
Nch.

27,

27,

1933
1932
1928
1928
1927
1921
1917

1937
1936
1934
1933
1931
1929
1928

1938
1936
1934
1933
1931
1929
1928

1938
1938
1938
1937
1929

1938
1937
1936
1935
1934
1933
1933
1932

1929

The table below gives the re-actions in a Bull Market and the declines in
a Bear Market, or the moves that are opposite to the main trend. The number of
moves in each campaign is given und the number of weeks of re-action or rally in
opposition to the trend. By going over these tables you will find that only six
times in over forty-two years did a move in opposition to a.trend last as much °
as eleven to fourteen weeks. We see that the average moves lasted from two to
five weeks and a few from six to eight weeks. This will be a guide for you in
future campaigns and enable you to figure about how many weeks a move will run
in opposition to the main trend before the market again resumes the main trend.

Year Moves Weeks Year _ Moves Weeks
lst Bull Market Low Aug. 8, 1896 3rd Bull Market
1896 1 2 1904 1 1
2 5 2 6
1897 3 13 3 6
4 7 4 1
1898 5 a 5 1
6 8 1905 6 6
1899 7 1 o End of 3rd Bull Market
8 5
End of 1st Bull Market
lst Bear Market: Srd Bear Market:
1900 He 1 1907 1 2
2 3 2 5
3 4 3 9
4 2 4 4
End of ‘lst Bear Market 1907 5 2
6 2
7 es
2nd Bull Market: 8 2
1900 1 BY 9 2
2 6 End of Srd Bear Market
3 2
1901 4 3 4th Bull Market:
; 5 1 1907 1 2
End of 2nd Bull Market , 1908 2 4
3 2
.. 2nd Bear Market: 4 5
1901 ae 1 5 6
2 3 6 6
3 ak 7 2
4 5 1909 8 2
1902 5 8 = - Y- 3
, 6 3 10 4
7 2 ll : “3:
8 4 End of 4th Bull. Market
9 4 ;
10 Zz: 4th Bear Market:
; alal 1 1910 1 3
1903 12 ) 2 3
13 4 3 2
14. 1 4 2
15 al 5 2
16 1
Nov. 9, 1902 End of 2nd Bear Market July 26 End of 4th Bear Market

154

t

‘| (hese? hones’ [ae | L: .

a ee ee ee ee ee ee
| | |

155

Year

1910

1911

1912

1912

1913

1914

1915

1916

1916
1917

1918

Moves

5th Bull Market:
al

3
4
5
6
?
8
9
10

12
End of 5th Bull Market

5th Bear Market:

OODNOaOnR ADH

10
Ind of 5th Bear Market

6th Bull Market:

oDrXNourrhanre

10
nie
End of 6th Bull Market

6th Bear Market:

arhWMOe

End of 6th Bear Market

7th Bull Market:

aoranr

Weeks

w

YVNNNHNYNN LPH AQA

~
VENDOUUNY WAND

w

FPOUAOaQrYrrHrwn sb

wa Pp Rw

PNM WN

Year

1918

1919
1919

1919
1920

1921

1921

1922

1923

1923

1924

1925

Moves ... Weeks

7th Bull Market, Cont'd.
6
i
8
9
10
11
12
End of 7th Bull Market

7th Bear Market:

ODNOUOhLANYY

10
11
12
End of 7th Bear Market

8th Bull Market:

ONOurhanr

End of 8th Bull Market

8th Bear Market: -
1

2
3
4
5
End of 8th Bear Market

9th Bull.Market

oo Rane

Oct. 18, 1924
7
8

Oennse VOUNN DN row ow ow

Hannor VION MU HOY

ANNANFEH

>
Year Moves

9th Bull Market, Cont'd.

1925 9
10
xa
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35

of 1929 Bull Market

1927

1928

1929

YAS VYVY VY NAN NAH BPKPHAOKHADWNYANHH

End

9th Bear Market
1929 ; i. 1
2 2
End of 9th Bear Market

10th Minor Bull Market or
Rally in Bear Market

1929 1 2

1930 2 2

Woeks

End of Rally in Bear Market

10th Bear Market
1930

Qnwnr
OM

NOC SL
aanr

1931

10
11

POH PH

156

rally

rally & 11 weeks
from low

rally & 10 weeks
from low

vult JUNO 2

Moves Woeka
10th Bear Market, Cont'd.
12
13
14
15
16
17
End of Bear Market July 8, 1932

' Yoar

} !

1931

Ke wmornWaorY
f |

|

llth Bull Market July 8, 1932 to
Sept. 1932.

rr

lst Sharp advance lasted 9 weeks no I
reactions followed by 25 weeks decline

which was a reaction in a bull market or [
accumulation on the side.

The greatest

rally lasted 6 weeks and the last decline L

7 weeks making bottom Feb. 27, 1933. i
Bull Market Resumed _
1933 1 move 2 weeks =
2 moves 1 week
3 moves 1 week

| eee

July 17th to 2lst declined 26 points.

Thon followed a trading market or

ee,

accumulation on the side lasting 91 weeks”

until March 30, 1935 during this time the

Hc J

averages did not advance 2 points above

lemme!

the high of July 17, 1933 nor decline
more than 2 points under the low of July J
21, 1933. Holding in a renge ‘of 27 points #
This long period of time indicated that ”
when the averages: crossed 112 the old J
tops in March 1935 that they would go _

very much higher and final top was made J

March 10, 1937 with the averages at 195}. |

—

nm im hea =: cE mm ee kk

YUW JUNDO YU Ase UUTTS TT Saree

From July 21, 1933 to March 30, 1935 tho moves were os follows:

weeks rally

weeks reaction

weeks advance to Sept. 1933 making a total of 9 weeks rally. _

weeks decline to 82}, Oct. 21, 1933. This was the extreme low of the reaction and

BIH HY

was 13 weeks from July 21, 1933. -The next rally lasted 14 weeks to February 5, 1934,
high 1114, then declined to July 26, 1934. The last low 644 - 24 weeks from February
5, 1934. There was no rally lasting more than 4 weeks and from this low the Bull
Market was resumed. February 5, 1934 to July 26, 1934, 11-A Minor Bear Market or re-
action in a Bull Market.

Year Moves Weeks Year Moves Weeks

llth Bull Market, Con't. : 12th Bull Market
1934 Z
, 2
3
1935 4
5
March 18, 1935 last low
6
7
8°
9
1936 10
11
12
13
14
16
16
17
18
19
1937 20
21
End of llth Bull’ Market
March 10, 1937.

1938 1 2

2 2

3 1 August .
reaction

Foo DW &

top
Nov. 10, 1938 End of 12th Bull Market

12th Minor Bear Market

1938 uM
2

DY APHNDOHHPOKYPP EP BO wYPe
n>

llth Bear Market

1937 1 2
2 1
3 2
4 8 rally-to
Aug. 14, 1937
5 Zz
8 2
1938 vf 2
8 2

March 31, 1938 End of llth Bear Market

4 4 weeks reaction
or 8 weeks fror
MYM YU VY AUTO Troe ay

Year Moves Woala Yoar Moves Woeks i
Reactions in Bull Market 4th Bull Market: |
1897 1 5 1908 1 4
2 8 2 5
1898 3 8 3 2 1
5 6 4 8
6 8 1909 5 2
1899 7 8
End of lst Bull Market End of 4th Bull Market L
Rallies in Lear Market 4th Bear Market:
1899 1 13 1909 1 2 L
2 4 2 4
1900 3 15 1910 3 4
Ind of lst Bear Market 4 2 L
5 2
2nd Bull Market: 6 2
1900 1 5 7 1 : L
1901 2 ul End of 4th Bear Market :
1901 3 8
4 2 5th Bull Market: a
5 3 1910 1 3
6 2 2 7
‘ 7 3 1911 3 3 L
End of 2nd Bull Market 4 3
5 10
2nd Bear Market: 1912 6 10
1902 : 1 4 7 10 tL
2 3 End of 5th Bull Market
3 2 1:
4 2 5th Boar Market: aad
End of 2nd Bear Market 1912 1 4°:
2 1
Srd Bull Market: 3 3 4
1903 2 1913. 4 3
1904 2 7 5 2
3 5° 6 13 a
4 2 7 8
1905 5 6 8 2
6 2 9 4 J
7 3 10 2
End of Srd Bull Market : 5th Bear Market ended Dec. 24, 1914 -
Srd Bear Market: J
1906 z 3 A ee ee
2 6 Re ee oe J
5 1 ee gee
6 2 UN -
” 5 WNA
8 4 ;

End of 3rd Bear Market

ae’ a

158

see aS ee Se eee eS ES er se Or Oe eee
|

159

CHAPTER 9

THE BASIS OF MY

FORECASTING METHOD

4

eg

160

WALL Street STOCK SELecTron es ROYAL ECONOMIC Society
New STOCK TREND OxTECTOR

How 10 MAKu Prorire in COMMODITIES VW . D a G A N N

82 WALL’ STREET
NEW YORK 5, N. Y.

eee ween oe
Sem Sees wo oe macee

“THE BASIS & MY FORECASTING .METHOD ,

. .
. etwas

Mathematics is tha only exact science. All power under heaven and on carth
id given unto the man who masters the simple science of mathematics. Emerson
said: "God does indeed geometrize." Another. wise man- said: - "There is nothing
in the universe but mathematical points." Pythagoras, one’ of the greatest mathe—
maticians that ever lived, after experimenting with nhumbers.and finding the
proofs of dil natural laws, said: "Before God was numbers." He believed that
the vibration of numbers created God and the Diety. It’has been said, "Figures
don't lie." Men have been convinced that numbers tell the truth and that all

problems can be solved by them, The chemist, ongineer, astronomer would be lost
without the science of mathematics. - RS ge er eee

Zt {s so hess and easy to solve. problems and get’ ‘correct’ answers and re-
sults with figures that it’ seems strange so few people rely‘on them to forecast
‘the future of business, stocks and commodity markets...> The basic principles are
easy to learn and understand. No matter’ whether you “Use ‘geometry,’ trigonometry,

or calculus, you use the simple ruloo of arithmetic. ‘You, do only two things:
You increase or decrease,

There are: two kinds of numbers, odd and even. We add numbers together, .
which is increasing. We multiply, which {s a shorter way to increase. We sub—
tract, which decreases, and we divide, which also. decteasesi .With the use of:

higher mathematics, we find a quicker and easier way ‘to divide, subtracty add-

and multiply, yet very simple when you Rieaes ene ite

Everything in nature is male and female,’ wits ent: eiack, “harmony or
inharmony, Tight and left. The market moves only two-ways, up and-down. There are
three dimensions which we know haw to prove--width, length and height. We use
three figures in geometry—-the ‘circle, - the square, and- the. ‘triangle. We get the
square and triangle points of a circle to ‘determine: points~ of; ‘time; price and

space resistance. We, use the ciréle of 360 degrees to. measure “Time and Price.:

1h . * sen,

There anc three kinds of angles—-the vertical, the eri santa, and the
diagonal, which we use for measuring time ahd price movements. We use the square

of odd and even numbers to get not only the proof of market movements, but the
cause. ‘

HOW TO MAKE CHARTS

Charts ard records of past market movements.

of the past. There is nothing new. As the Bible says——"Tho thing that hath
been, it is that which shall bo." History repeats and with-charts and rules we
determine when and how it is going to repeat. Therefore, the first and most
important point to learn is how to make charts correctly because if you make an
error in the chart, you will make an error in applying the rules to your trading.

The futura: io but a repetition

a

YEARLY CHART; You should koop a yoarly high ond low ohart, that is, recording m~
tho extreme low and the extreme high. price made during the
oalondar year on one line. Tho spacing. for the price can be used one point to |

each 1/8 inch or two points or more, according to one =e and. range of the
stock, ; ; os

MONTHLY CHART: You must always keep up a monthiy high and low chart, which is a |
the most important chart of. all in determining the main trend,
This chart records the extreme high end extreme low price for the calendar month

on one line, and each spaco or 1/8 inch on the cross—sectien chart paper should
reprosont one point or $1 per sharo.

WEEKLY CHART; The next and ono of the very important charts to koop is a woekly -
high end low chart. wWhero stocks are solling bolow 50, it usually

pays to make this ohart up using each 1/8 inch ‘to’ Yeprosent. ono-half point, or

two spaces to represent one full point, or four points’ for:.each ono-inch spaco,.

When stocks become very active, especially’ when thoy ‘aro’solling above $100 por L

sharo, then you can mako up the wookly ohart using gach “space or 1/8 inch on the

ohart paper ta tepreaant ono point or a yor Snares.

La
ee

SENI-WEEKLY OR S-DAY CHART: * Tho next ohaet of ‘daporbense’ a" ‘tho Woukay Chart is L

a 3-doy chart,’ that is, .taking tho oxtrome high and
extromo low price made from tho oponing-of "tho market om Monday morning wmtil tho L
close on Wednesday'’night, closing tho ohart on Wodnesday night-— thon from the
eponing on Thursday to the close on Saturday, teking tho oxtromo high and low-and
closing the chart on Saturday. This givos you o-timo*poriod showing ono-holf of
the wook, This chart is vory importent as will bo oxplained lator on in tho -

instructions, The spacing for this chart-cen bo tho somo as for tho wookly high
and low chart..

A |
WSEKLY MOVING-AVERAGE OR MEAN POINT: To got a Wookly Moving-Avorago, wo take =
- + tho oxtrome low for:tho wook ang, the ox-
tromoe high for the week ond divide by. 4, getting the half-way or mean point for 4
the week. This cam be recorded on the weekly high © and ‘low chart or on a separate mi

chart, recording the Woekly Moving-Average with a dot. and using ono line on the

‘chart for each Masks Importance of this Meckty” Moan’ Fore pea s exploinod pa |

DATLY CHART: . When you are trading in a stock thet ia. Le you ‘should _alweys
; koep up a daily high aaa low chart, but for, study purposos it is
enough to keep up the Weekly ond ° Monthly‘ Charts, which’: give “you:the main trond, J

_ The Daily Chart: shows the minor trend and.shows a ‘ohlange’ in troiia- ‘nich oftoner

thon ony ef the other charts, But’ tho indication doos not last as Yong or rm 60
far. This chart shovlé-bo kopt up tho same as the others ,- ‘oxcopt when stocks are J
solling below 50 or. when. thoy aro in an inactivo trading range- then tho spacing
should bo 1/2-point to each 1/8-inch on tho chart popor, allowing two. spacos to -
represont ono full point or $1 per sharo. Whon stooks are active and. advancing J
vory fast, making a wido. rongo oach day, thon you can mako tho Daily Chart the

some as the Weekly or Monthly, thot is,: using one point for each 1/8-inoh on tho.
chart popor, This spacing cuts the chart dow. and keeps, it.:in a ‘rango whero it
is oasy to soo and road whon fluctuations aro wido.

No spacos oro skippod on tho Daily Chart for helidaye or Sundays, therefore
the time poriod is for actual markot days and not calendar days, However, you J
should carry tho calendar days along at loast overy two weeks, as lator, wder
rulos for Timo Periods for change in trond, you will find that it is nocossary =
to check up and know when tho stock is 30, 60, 80, 120, 135, otc. days from a top !

161

eee Fe ee Ee eS ee eee ee eS eS
ie

a!
N

Or a bottom, which moans calondar days, tho oxact monsuromont of Timo for tho
daily chart. Ofton tho Daily Chart on actual daily movements comes out on cn
oxect mathomaticc] angle of timo moasuroment at tho samo timo the calendar days

como out on exact timo measuromont, malting it a doubly important point for chango
in trond.

GEOMETRICAL ANGLES ©

a

. -eeeee
eee eens

- +
. o 4h we we

o-
oe

After long yoars of practical oxperienco, I have discovered that Geometrical.
Angles measure accurately Space, Time, Volume and Price.

Methematios is the only exact science, as I have said before. Every nation
on the face of the earth agrees that 2 ond 2 make 4,:no: matter what language it
speaks. Yet all.other sciences are not in- accord as’mathematical science. ° We
find different mon in difforent professions ‘along soiontifio lines. disngreeing

on problems, but there can be no disagreement in mathematical oalculotion.

There are 360 degreos jn a circle, no matter howlarge or how small the circle
may bo. Cortain numbors of these dogroos ond: anglos aro-of vast importance and
indioate when important tops and bottoms occur on stooks, as well as denoto
important Resistanoo Levels. Whon onoo you havo thoroughly mastored tho Goomotri-

oal Anglos, you will bo able to solve any problem and determino the trond of any
stook, : 3

After 35 years of research, tosts ond practical applicetions, I have per-
fected ond proved the most important anglos to bo used in dotormining the trond
of tho stock markot. Thorofore, concontrato on those’ angles until you thorough-

ly undorstond thom. Study ond experimont with each rule I givo you, ond you’ will
malco a sucooss. -

We use geometrical engles to measure Space -and Time *periods becayse it is a
shorter and quicker method than. addition or multiplication;-provided you follov
‘the rules and draw the engles or lines accurately from tops and bottoms or ex-
treme highs and lows, You may make a mistake-in:addition or multiplication, but
the geometrical angles accurately draw williconreot, this:mistake. For example;
If you should count across the bottom of your .chart 120 -spaces, which represents
120 days, weeks, or months, then you'begin at:"G" ond numbor vertically on’ your
chart up to 120~ then from this top point, at:120-:draw a 45-dogroo angle moving
down, this will come out at "0" on 120:poiuts over from the:-beginning. If you
have made a mistake in numbering, this: will coxrect it. ;

Angles drawn on o ohart always koop bofore you the position of tho stook and
its trond whereas if you had a resistance point on time. written dorm, you might
mislay it or forget it but these angles aro always on.thedhart in front of you,

These ongles or moving-avorage trend linos. correctly” drawn will keep you from
making mistakes or misjudging tho trond. If you wait and follow your ‘rules, these
angles will show you when tho trond changes «. . ,

The moving-averago as commonly used is obtained. by taking the extreme low:

‘price ond the extreme high price of the calondar day; wock or month,. snd dividing

it by two to get.the moon or aversge price for the day, week-or month, and oon-
tinuing this at the end of each-time period. This is an irregular movement in |
spaces or points per week because at ono time it may move up 2 points per weck

ond at enothor 5 ‘points por wook, while tho tima poriod is. o rogular unit. Thoro
fore goomotrioal ongles, which aro roally moving~ovorages, | ‘move up or dowm at an
uniform rato from ony bottom or top on a daily, ia or-monthly chart.

HOW 10 DRA. GEOMETRICAL ANGLES . i
Thera aro threo important points that we can prove with mathematics or l
geometry: the Circle, the Square, and-the Triengle. after I have made the Sqrere

I can draw a Circle in it using the. same diemetor Fi “and: ‘Bhexeby produce the Tri-
angle, the aaa and the Circle.

The Angles or moying-trend-line averages measure and: divide Time-and Price
into proportionate parts. Refer to Form "l") whore I havo drawn the square of
28. You will note that this is 28 high and 28 wide-, in‘ other words, 28 up and L
28 across, It is the same as a square room which has:a bottom or floor, a top or
weiling, and eids walls. ‘Everything has width, length, ond hoight.

eS Mai rr rr a or L
PAA ILE BOQUZAIDEN | OR Te
—| —\—|— —|—| —|—| | 4} |} |} — = —|
; 7 L
D z
7 :
Z.
Z ..t
Ll See
a BA aoe.
ZL Fass
Seeeeeeeee seeeeere 7 aan
C a AT
x IZ |
?!
. fae Z
i | Se
Poetic a S =
a
lal ay SF Ss FN Be ~|-}-|--A--F
“CIA gly Fes]
A we
b
CCEA CRIA CSCS CaS - FSC Ree Ree
al = Hal e

To get the strongest and most important’ points’ ‘in ‘this: Basis I divide it
into two equal parts’ by drawing a horizontal ond ‘a vortioal : lino. . Noto ongle
-marked "A", which.divides oach of the smallor ‘squares::into. two: equal parts and
runs from on to "28" diagonally. This is a’ diagonal lino ‘moving: ‘on a 45°-ongle i.
ond divides the large Square into two equal‘parts, Thor note ongle "B" at yg
running horizontally across, This divides tho Square into: two ‘equal parts, ‘Note: J
angle "C", which.is a vortical lino, running up from "14", whioh is one-half of.
"28", This crossos ut tho contor or half-way point at 14, “eirave ‘tha other .onglos
cross, dividing tho Square into two ogual parte, Thon. note ongle "D", which
forms dnothor 45° angle moving from tho N. W. cornor te tho Ss. E. cornor, cross— J
ing "14" ot the oxact half-way point. You soo by this that if wo draw tho first
iino thru the conter of tho square, we divide it into two equal parts~ then when —

163

164

we draw lines from the other directions, we divide it into Pour equal parts~

then by drawing the two lines from each corner, we divide. Lhe square into 6 equal
parts and produce, 8 triangles. =

.As you look at this Square, it should be’ easy for you: to tell with your eye ..
where the strongest support point is or resistance point’ is.;It “is at the ¢enter
where all the angles cross. Four angles cross at this point, so naturally this
would be a stronger support point than a place where only.one angle crosses. I
could divide each one of these smaller squares into four .or eignt equal parts by
drawing angles in the same way. Later, when I give you the. rules and examples,

I will explain how to square the Range of ‘a stock, that’.is, the difference be-.
tween the extreme low and the extreme high prices, or the difference between any
low point and any high point, and also how to sauare the bottom price. For ex-
ample: If the top of a stock is 28, this Souare of -28-x' 28 would represent |
squaring the Price by Time, because if we have 28 points’ up. in-Price, and we. move
over 28 spaces in Time, we square the Price with Time.” Therefore, when the stock

has moved over 28 days, 28 weeks, or 28 months, it will be iciailiaie its price
range of 28. : ; :

PATTERN CHART FOR GEOMETRICAL. AnouEs. :

The Square of 90, or the ‘Patvarn Chart, shows ‘all ‘ihe measured angles that
are important to use in determining “the position’ of-a’ stock.'-These angles are as
follows: 34,‘ 7, 15, U88, 264. 30, 338, 37%, 45, 52h, 564, 60, ‘638, 71k, 75,

824, 864, and 90° ‘degrees.

It is not necessary to measure these _—e with™ a arobruniar All. you have .
to do to get the angles correct is to count the spaces’ on the chart paper, Msn
8x 8 to the inch, and draw the lines or angles apegrd ing ty.

On the square of 90, which you will receive with these. ‘instructions, note

how equal angles drawn from the top and from the semaine haley themselves by the
point at which they cross. For example: SEL “y

The angle of 8 x 1-drawn from "0". and the angle of 8. .x 1.drawn from "90"

. down both cross at 45, 5-5/8 points over from 0" counting to the right. Then,
“the angle of 4x1 from "O" and the angle of 4°x 1 down:from "90", you will

notice, cross at 1lé on 45, equidistant from the other: angle and twice the
measure.. The reason why these -angles prove this way is.because the 45° angle.-
or 45 points or degrees from-"O" to 45 is one-half of -90° ‘Therefore, parallel

angles beginning at.."0""-going up and at 90 coming down,’ ‘must’ cross on a 45° angle
or at the gravity .center. o:

‘HOW TO DRAW ANGLES FROM is POINT si fo

An example marked "Form 2" shows you the Most impor vant: angles to use when | ;
a.stock is work ing ‘higher and advancing. (See page 6) - .

FIRST IMPORTANT GEOMETRICAL ANGLE:

The first and always Cs eee
45° or 1x1

draw is a 45-degree angle or a mov ing-averagé
-that moves up one point per ‘day, one point:
per week or one point per month. This is a 45° angle because it divides the Space
and Time Periods into two equal parts, As long as the market or a stock stays
above the 45° angle, it is ina strong position and indicates higher prices. You
can buy evéry time a stock rests on the 45° angle with a stop loss order one, two
or three points under the 45° angle, but remember the rule— never use a stop

me GA~6

loss ordor moro than 3 points away, Unless stooks. are noar the low levels: or: -
just starting in a bull market or-selling at vary low prices, I always usaf. stop
less order one point umder tho 45° ongle. If this onglo is broken by one: paint,

you will usually find that tho trond has changod at loast temporarily ond tho
stock will go lower, a ;

An easy way to caloulote accurately how to put on this 45° onglo is:
For oxamplo; If the timo is 28 duys, 28 woeks, or 28 months from tho point whero
tho stock was bottom, thon tho angle or 45° must bo 28 points up from tho botton
and would cross ot 28. This is ono of the eosiest angles to put on and one .of
tho simplost to learn, You can boat the. markot by trading againatthe 45° onglo
alone if you stick to the rule-— wait to buy a ‘stock’ on’ the .45° anglo or wait to
sell it ogainst the 45° ongle. a be "

pase ees Ge —— cae

i F l a j
(Ke SIKZ5
L
7

|
J
=

—

KAA

:
!
aes
~LF
+

|
om
{I
by
ln Pr YP
SA
J
f
!

|

|
&

ies

|

|

!
i

1

|

Zs!
Net

SY
!

!

i

H
Ut
!

li

SEL SS HL Gf (Pe | | al 5S M% LIS ( ies
| Hy |S G/ a a le
oa ee ere es el ol lel 1S p oo) Cp Jefe me | mctacete wo | ame ana 8 Se ee eee ee
old d A hes
WIV T. y
: : STIRS ad
L ay
1) 7
=== ieeerges ie a-}—|~*|="]- arb i it Ws st fe Hs le = Vs
V . x e i i
aie “VIZ ¢ :
an / ah fa
\
aeraaee Z IRIE
V; ABOWET Tare ARABI
bh a Nw,
Na = : x 1

aye a i

NBXT “IMPORTANT ANGLE

is the angle of 2.x 1, or the’ moving-average which moves up.
ox 2: i

the space between the 45—-degree “angle.agd the vertical

angle into two equal parts end measures 63$°. That is why. it is the next -strong-_
est and most important angle. As long as ‘a ‘stock holds:above this angle, it .is.--

in a stronger position than when it is resting on a 45° angle’ because it is a-
more acute angle. When a stock breaks wmder'this angle of 2 x 1, or two points
for each timo poriod, then it indicotes that it will .g0 lower and reach the 45°
angle. Remember tho rule of all angles: No matter what angle the stock broaks
undor, it indioatos o doclino to tho noxt anglo bolow it.

at the rate of 2 points per day, week or month. Jt divides. ©

— Bec | i! =,

oe ee:

|

=
Ce ee ee

|

mm

166

THIRD IMPORTANT ANGLE, which is still stronger as long as a stock holds above it,
4x1 is the omglo which moves up 4 points por day, week, or
. Month. This angle is 4 x 1,.or 4 points of Spaco equal
one period of Time. It measures 75° and divides the space between the angle of
2x 1 and the 90° angle into two equel parts. Any stock that continuos to advance
4 points per day, 4 points por weok, or 4 points per month, ond romains. abovo this
angle is in a vory strong position as long as it-stays above it, but when it

_ breaks undor, it indicates the noxt angle or next support point according to the

position of tho stock on Timo.

FOURTH IMPORTANT ANGLE is tho angle of 8 x 1 or the one that moves up 8 points
Bx 1 per day, week or month. This angle measures 822°. ‘As
long as a stock can hold above this ‘angle on daily, week—
ly or monthly chart, it is in the strongest possible position, but when it rever—
ses trond ond declines below this angle, then it indicates’ a doolino to the next
anglo. SEN ; ae ye a

NEXT ANGLE;- It is possible to uso an angle of 16 x 1,-or 16 points of Price to |
1G x one poriod of Time, which measures 862°, but this anglo is only used
in fast, advancing markets, like 1929, when stocks are moving up or
down 16 points or moro por week or per month. There are very few stocks that

will movo up 16 points per day, wook or month, and vory seldom,

You will note that with these four important angles we show the strong or
vullish sido of tho market, All tho time by dividing the Spaoo with onglos we
aro gotting tho half-way point or tho gravity center of Time ond. Price,

3 x 1 ANGLE: Note the angle drawn in Groen, marked "3x 1", which moves up at tho
rate of 3 points per day, weok or month, measuring 713°, This
onglo is important at times aftor markets have had a: prolonged advance cnd are a.

long ‘distanco up from the bottom.- It is an important angle to use on Monthly end
Wookly charts. aes a She

“
=

These are all the ongles you need as. long as a stock continues to advance
ond work up end stays above tho anglo of 45° or the moving-averago of one point
per day, wook or month, it ;

Whilo thoro aro 360 dogroes in a circle ond anglos cen form at ony of those
dogroos, all of tho important ongles form betwoon "O". ond "90" bocause $0 is

stroight up and down ond the most acute angle on which a stock can rise. For
exemple: The 45° ongle divides the space from "0". to "90" in half. The anglo

of 155° is simply another onglo of 45° because it is one-half of tho noxt quadrant
between 90 ond 180. 225 ond 315 in a circle are also 45° onglos. Thorcefcre all
of the anglos valuable in dotormining tho trond of a stock aro found Batwaen "O"
and *90" degroos. Whon we divide 90° by 8 we got tho most important anglos to

uso- then divido it by 3 we got’30 and 60° anglos, which are important to uso for.
Time ond Rosistence Points. : - ;

WHAT KIND OF BOTTOMS TO DRAW ANGLES.
OR MOVING-AVERAGE LINES FROM” .

ee Ta

DAILY CHART; If a stock has beon doclining for somo timo~ then starts to rally

‘oe See (by rallying from a bottom it must make highor bottoms ovory day
ond higher tops) — "thon after 2 $-day rally on the daily high ond low chart, you
san put‘on tho 45 onglo ond the angle of 2 x 1 from the bottom or low point, As

-a rulo, it will only--bo necossary to pyt on these two ongles ot first. If this

a]

.
; \
bottom holds and is not brokon, than you sam put on the other unglos from tho |
bottom,’

WEEKLY CHART; fa stock is doclining and reacts for moro than ono wook and con- |
tinues down, wo will say, for three wooks or more, then starts
to rally ond advancos two woeks or moro, you would start to put ‘tho angles on
from tho low point of thu duclino, only using tho angles: above tho 45 angle — L
until the stock again broaks undor tho 45° anglo- aftor that you would use tho
othor anglos on the lowor or bocrish side of tho Squaro, :
WHAT TO DO AFTER THE 45° ANGLY FROM BOTTOM IS BROKEN L
After o stock makes top, oithor temporary or otherwise, and breaks under tho
45° ongle and starts moving down, then the first thing you do is to draw angles
below the 45° ongle, starting from the bottom or low point. Note example marked
“Porm 7:3": . , L
=o Sena fem Jd
(il LE 2 He Fe DP FOESRA_ | tes A--FH L
: pk ta_| Ista Z
3 TERY | EITC L
a Le Ps igh
& IAAL oe Pig }
; a 7
2a Oe [Stebdaebl uy Rev | [
i ZI
Cp ae CSS a
IBS L—| Cer ise
(S87) S SSE RE = 2 See ee: i
IC SER |
fede ffl} -}-f-}-1-}}- HEFL es ia aie
by =
FO a4 a iia
. Eanes Papi aa + ES :
~ oA ; ~
LR. zi QZ DS
=e fel —| QA ar Hobs
a) Ly Ol 7
SiRG ERE Se a C ~
Bi 1 opie resale
“CEERI ec EERERP EG pee Ee beset
= “Ze ary agin Elid ll SES BE 28 wo a|
= an ovat soul ea a Pe A el Le ; ae
Ha PEE | eae EE eet Cl
AL 2 At_ Pe S Cal .
Zee ee = =| =eLPee x j J
Q oe
lag | Jof 1 i= f zm =
! a vy « ~S — q iN Ky ' J
RR ERR ER i a ne z
BOP eee ee eee eee.
io Als lel Vi ak es a

FIRST ANGLE ON BEAR SIDE OF THE: SQUARE: ‘Tho first engle that you draw on the
2.x 2, bour side of the Square is the angle =
of 2x 1 or 2 points ovor and one point
up, Which moves at the rete of one-half point-per day, week or month and measuros
263°. This is the first support onglo which the stock should rooch after it breaks_
under the 45° angle. As o general rule, whon the stock reaches this angle, it ]

e a

167
SSS

will roodivo support ond rally. Somotimos it will rost on it far a long period

of timo, holding on this ongle ond melcing higher bottoms. But whon this onglo

of 2x1, or moving-evoerage of ono-half point, per day, weok or month. is broken,
i then you must drew the next ongle of 4 «1, - GS oe iy ae

NEXT. IMPORTANT ANGLE: The next important anglo on tho boar side of the Squaro,
me ge which moves up at tho rete of 1/4-point por day, is the

eanglo of 4 x 1, moasuring 15°, -It.will be tho next strong
support angle which the stock should get support on ond rally from,

NEXT ANGLE 8 x ):; Then after tho 4 x 1 angle is broken, the noxt important
= angle that you will put on your chart is tho anglo of 8 x 3,
which moves ot tho rato of 1/8-point por day, week or month end measures 13°,
This is often a very strong support onglo. Aftor a stock has hod a big declino,
it will often rost on this onglo sovorol times or may make final bottom and
start up from this onglo, crossing othor ongles and gotting baok into a strong
position again. Therefore this engle is important to uso on a monthly or wookly
chart after a ‘prolonged declino, ae “Eye! a os

ANGLE 16 x 1: This:englo can bo usod on. a monthly chart aftor a long poriod of

time has elapsod’ from an important bottom. It movos at tho. -rato
of 1/16 point per month ond moasures 3Ze, ese ;

ANGLE OF 3 x 1: This onglo, drawn in rok ink, is a vory important angle,
moasuring 182°. I strongly advise using it ot all timos ond
keoping it up on monthly charts from any important bottom, ‘ It con elso bo usod
to advontago oat times on woekly charts, but is seldom of much valuc on a daily
chart. It moves ot the rate of ono-third point per day, wook, or month. By
drawing this on the monthly chart for a long poriod of yoars, you will soon bo
convinood of its value ond also by tosti

om.

ng it on a weekly chart, will find it
valuable, : :
This completes all of the angles that you will need to‘use from any bottom
at any time. -

HOW TO DRAW ANGLES FROM TOPS
ON DAILY, WEEKLY OR MONTHLY CHARTS

POSITION UNDER 45° ANGLE DRAWN FROM TOP: After a stook has mode top and declined

for o.reasonable length of time, say,
three days, three weeks or three months, breaking previous bottoms, then you

start to draw engles down from tho top. Noto oxample markod "Form #4", which is
the pattorn for drawing ongles from the top under the 45°. angle. (sco page 10)

45° ANGLE FROM TOP: -

The first angle you draw is the angle of 45° or a moving-_
average which indicates a decline of one point per day, week

or month... As jong as the stock is below this angle, it is in the weakest position
“and in o bear market, i oS T tye as

OTHER ANGLES; In mony cases a stock will start doclining on ‘average ‘of 8: points. _

' per day, week or month, ox 4 points per day, week or month, or 2 °
points por day, weok or month, thoroforo you should put on all of those angles
from the top, which move down faster than tho englo of 45°, —

WBRAKEST POSITION: Tho stock is in the weakost possiblo position when it declines

ond keeps under tho angle of 8 xl. It is in the noxt weak-

mae
| { ,

168
169

est position whon it is dr opping down et tho rate of 4 points por day, week or
nonth, or under the angle of 4x l. tt Ais in its next weakest position when Lt
is dropping down ‘under the angle cf 2 xl,

STRONGEST POSITION: The stock is in a stronger position and indicates a better

rally when it crosses the angle of 2 x 1, but this depends
on how far it is down from the top and how far the angles are apart, as will be
explained later under the rules. ;

CHANGING TREND: As long as a stock is declining one point per day, week or

month, or falling bolow or mder the 45° angle, it is still in
a bear market and in a very weak position, When a stock rallies and crosses the
angle of 45° after a prolonged decline, then you are ready to put on the anglos
on the other side of the 45° onglo, which shows that the stock is in a stronger
position in a bear market and may be gotting ready to change into o bull markot,

rreecr Fe pee

(oe Ti
ORRAA a
im a Ns wi
S seueeseen 72 "577172 Suneuee
i 2 5 eR (LRACL AFAR ERS Awe See
oe “Hoek nedea wae
See ero IFItt Awa: si
—f : Be a
| E He
i t a SI i—
—¢
| x F
es es c is
‘. be ips Na RP
q pot Ma We! (} ra S Fa z=
PEPE EELS IS EAE FEET ERR cee Cereb errr
| PREC HEL an Rs
‘ aie reece he
=H HEHE Ap A==-R-A-J-EEEEEEREANCEREA-EEEEEE
BRET IEC CNC EEE ae
SPCCCRECHEA EEE NE eres
( y : SIE
pa = A.
[CECEICRC ICN i CO eo
i i a ae poets

POSITION ABOVE 45° ANGLE DRAWN FROM. TOP.

=“;

Refer to Form 315, which is the pabberk for drawing ato above: “ik 45°.
angle from tho Son. (See pago 11)

2 x 1 ANGLE FROM TOP: Tho first angle or moving—average you draw aftor the 45°

onglo from the top is crossod and after tho stock indi-

1

ae

a be!’ bee!’ Le’ Le! LL.”

170

GA-11

oatos that it has mado a tomporary bottom is tho ongle of 2 x 1, moving ovor 2
points and down ono point, or 1/2-point por wnit of Time. This is moving down.
at the rato of 1/2-point per month, woek or day.

4 x 1 ANGLE: ‘The noxt is tho ongloe of 4 x 1 which ‘evos down oat tho rate of

1/4-point per day, wook or month.

8 x 1 ANGLE; The noxt angle is the engle of 8 xl, which moves down at tho rate
of one point every 8 days, 8 wooks or 8 months, or 1/8-point per
time poriod,. Be

eP Ewe ze ee : IgE i
be a Van fae Tan Sh bases
oe i = 7 Ag se
Sa a vo FAroiPpe | A i
[CCEOS CSS ESSERE Sr ei
[ SEES ee
Ziel 5s PE? | 2, va EE
i RP PF Ss SAE set il
my el i * Nz 2 AS. |. =
| <p a5 Sort ==
—|—] Hi J —|— me ad a0)
GS SF Se
= ae on She] s =
TP 1 a
a NS —| - 4ea
Fl SP
Td TR WNISE 4
; I A
— = D
YALE Ys
 ) M Love 1 %
4 ¢ 2 yf “Ang
asf x |
i,
ri
Zz
| a gl 6 HS a a a ie : i

STRONG POSITION: Aftor tho stock hns crossed the angle of 45” ohd ralliod up ..

to the angle of 2 x 1, it will moot selling and react to somo
angle coming up‘from the bottom of the last move, bit it. is-in a.stronger
position whon it holds above this angle of 2 x 1 ond. is in the noxt strongost
position when it crosses tho angle of 4x1. Crossing tho engle-of 8 x 1, which
is of loast importanoo, it indicatos thes it is in a vory strong position again
from the top, You must always consider a movoment coming up fro bottom and its
position on anglos from the bottom to dotermine its strongth.. It is ‘<page
to consider the numbor of points it has moved up from the hott cn: ane how ERY
points it is down from the top, ee oe

3 x 1 ANGLE; The angle of 3 x 1 dravm in rod on Form #5 moos’ Hic own: at ‘the. rato,”

of one point ovory threo days, throo-wooks or thyoo' months , ‘or ono-—
third point por day; wook or month. This onglo is importont to uso ‘aftor pro-
longed declinos.

This completes tho forms of all tho anglos that you will nood,to. uso at ony
timo from tops or bottoms, Practico putting thoso angles on tops and bottoms un-—
til you thoroughly undorstand how to do thom and lmow that you are gotting thom

e

GA-12

absolutoly accurato. Thon you oon bogin to study the rules for dotormining tho
trond according to tho position of the stock-on. OngLOss ,

DOUBLE AND TRIPLE TOPS OR BOTTOMS. ° i

ANGLES CROSSING EACH OTHER: Whon thoro is a doublo bottom sovorel days, weoks |
or months apart, you draw anglos from theso bottoms,
which aro near the same price levols. For example: From the first bottom draw

ao 45° ongle'ond from the second bettom draw an anglo-of 2 x 1- thon whon those
angles cross each other, it wil], be an importent point. for a change in trend, l
Note on chart marked Form #6 that I have drawn tho -45° engle from the first bot—
tom "1B", ond the angle of 2 x 1 on the right hond:side.of the 45° angle. Then,
from the’ second bottom "2B" I have drawn a 45°. engle ‘and the angle of 2 xl, L
which gains 2 points per day, week or.month,° on the left: hand or bull side ofthe
45° angle, You will note that the angle of 2 x 1 from the second bottom crosses
the engle of 2 x 1 on the bear side from the’ first bottom at 48, and that when

the stock breaks under these angles,. a- chenge in trend takes plece. and it goes
Lower. :

Note that the engle of 2 x 1 from the third bottom "3B" crosses tho anglo L
of 2 X 1 on the bear side fromthe first bottom at 53s ond ‘crosses tho 45° angle
from the second bottom at 58. ‘This would be a point to watch for, ohange in trond,
I havo placed a qirole where thoso angles from tho different bottoms como together,

Apply this rule to doublo tops ond triple tops in. the somo way. It is not
nosossary for tho tops or bottoms to bo exeotly ot tho samo price lovol, but’ L

neor’tho samo lovel. Romombor, always draw 45° anglos from all important tops
ond bottoms. ; 3"
+. apa peers

ae awe =. 2 WA Li =L
— AZ VA
ak
DLE! TAs. Z ac
: ZL - *
a)
She
| 4
144 i SA ae ran Sera
a i
LU
4 !
" “ie
oat y = om
eal wa (3a li Ta me 4 SeqsI-/ Py i le i i
ia io as
7114 i La il i
a ser = J
V4 .
27) Se ae
A a es | J
|
PARALLBL ANGLES .
Parallel “angles or lines run from important tops and enn As proviously J

oxploined, the 45° onglo is tho most important ond should bo drawn from all
- important tops:ond bottoms. If a stock starts advonoing, wo draw a 45° anglo from
tho bottom— thon if tho stock makos top, declines ond makos a highor bottom— then

171
172

GA-13

advencos and makes a highor top, we draw a 45° onglo from the first top, rumaing
tho lino up. This will givo tho oscillation or width of fluctuation in a parallel
betweon the 45° ongle from the bottom and the 45° ongle running up from the top.
Often a stock will advance to the 45° ongle from the first top, fail to oross it,
then decline and rest on the 45° angle from the first bottom- then advance again,
working up for a prolongod bull oampaign betwooen thoso parallel umnglos.

When the angles are very far epert, you can draw another. 45° ongle equi-
distant between them, which is often a strong support angle from which a stock
Will-relly, but when it breaks under; it declines to the bottom parallel.

Porallols can form betvoon tho mgles of 2x lor 4x1 just tho samo aos
botween 45° angles, which often occurs in slow-moving stocks,

GEOMETRICAL ANGLES OR MOVING-AVERAGE LINES
: _DRAYN FROM “o"

When a stock reaches bottom ond starts up, you have been instructed to draw
ongles from this exact low point, whioh shows the support in time poriods, but
thero are other angles that loter on will be, just as important ond somotimos moro
important thon tho angles drovm from the bottom of a:stock, Theso are tho anglos
that bogin at "0" or zero ond move up at the some rate that they move up from tho
bottom. The starting point must be on tho samo: line-that-the bottom is made on
as the time poriod bogins from this bottom, but the angles’ movo up from "oO",
Thoso onglos should bo startod ovory timo a stock makos a bottom, ospooially on
wookly ond monthly charts, und should also bo carried up on important movomonts
on tho daily chart. Example: Soo chart markod Form #7 on page 14.

If a stook makos low at 20, as shown on the chart, starting the 45° anglo -.
from "0", whion will this angle reach 20? Answor; -It will roech 20 in 20 days,
20 wooks or 20 months from tho bottom or its storting point. In other.words, in
20 doys, 20 wocks, or 20 months, it will be up 20 from "0" and at tho p¥ico where
tho stock mado bottom. Then the engle will continue on up at the some rate, and
later, when the stock breaks under the 45° angle from the actual bottom made at
20 and breaks the other support angles drawn from the ‘actual bottom at20, the
next important point for support will be the angle of 45° moving up from "0",
Whon this angle is broken, it is'in tho weakest possible position and indicates
much lower vrices, . but this depends on. how high the *stock is-selling ond how
much it has declined at the time it breaks the 45° angle from "0", Those angles

drawn from "QO", especially the 45° engle,-proves when Prico and Time aro balanc-
ing or when the stock is ‘squaring out. from its bottom,

"QO" ANGLES STARTING AT THE TIME TOP IS MADE

When a stock readhes extreme top on a daily, weekly or monthly chart and the
trend turns down, you should start an angle of 45° from "0" moving wp from the
exact space and date that the top is made. This will prove the square of the:: i 3_.:
time poriod, It is very important when this engle is reached and indicates &*!:..-™
change in trond. ‘It is the last strong-support and whon broken, it will indicate
much lower prices. , > ae

I havo instruoted you in oach onso to first draw tho -45° ongle from bottom;
top ond from "0" at bottom and top, but this does not maan that you must not uso
the other onglos. All of tho othor ongles can bo usod from "O", but tho 45°
ongle is the first ond most importmt. -Aftor “this onglo is broken, thon you can
use tho other angles. It is not nécossary to carry all of them olong until you

Y
¢
‘out different tops ond bottoms so that you can prove to yourself the groat value

GA-14 |

noeod them, but on the monthly chart, aftor a long sorios of yoars, thoso other
ongles should be carried along when tho stock begins to spproach the levels

whore thoy would bo brokon or whoro the stook would rost on thom and roooivo |
support. ,

45° ANGLE FROM "0" TO TOP AND BOTTOM: When a 45° angle moving up from "0" l
= = reaches the line or price'of the bottom,

it is vory important— thon again when it reaches the point of tho oxtrome high

price, it is very important for a change in trend,

You should carry 45° angles and othor ongles up from “O" from all important
first, sacond, ond third higher bottoms, especially those where vary much time
has olapsed betWeen these bottoms, You should also start the mgle of 45° up L
from "0" from the first, second, -and third lower tops,» especially those which
show much time period elapsed. These engles are the. = important to be carried
on the weekly and monthly charts.. he ee te L

Never overlook keeping up the angles from "o" because ‘they will tell you
when Time is squaring out with Price. from tops. end bottoms..and will locate sup— L
port angles br moving-average lines at a point on-the bear side after the first
45° engle from a béttom ig broken. You could not locate this support point in
any other’ way except by thé angles from "0". . .. L

You should go back over past records ond bring up these angles and square
|

of using thoso ongles. [- py py — ;
By Btw ~

Pech fet cs Fa ee Ze z
. “Cet = ae 7
Bf Fil i FS FO fa Ba sl tas Het —! =

zZ tg ey Ne
a a J

a

EP Ste s6cnr Ghee: eee Oa

Se a er .

ug V a ia

ae ee

Sie Itry eI alieli¢[ ede QR) :

ee ee OD i i, .

del Pesce cee

NI
|

my

TTT
NI]

Rhee SOR ORR
i

Pe. 2 |
“

3 1
Z
Ml

;

i]
15,

|

]

!
7X1
20

!

i
I
i
|
}
1
1

al
[@)
py!
ie
ica
kh
Ss)
|
I
I
I
]
i
!
(|
1

173

174

ANGLES FROM TOPS DOWN TO "oO" AND UP “AGAIN

A 45° ongle starting down from ony important top on: monthly or wookly
chart should be continued down wmntil it reaches “O" and then started up again
at the some rato. After a long numbor of years botween important tops ond bot—
toms, this onglo coming dowm ond going up again is importost. A 45° anglo can
also be continued down from any important bottom-to "O" ond thon started up ngain,
This will show tho squaring of Prico with Timo from oither top or bottom,

Anglos can be started from "0" at the time ony important timo cyole runs |
out. For exemple; U. S. Steel made extreme low in 1904. May, 1924 would be the
end of a 20-year cyclo or 120 months, In May, 1924 ‘$teol.made top at 109 against
a 45° onglo beginning at "0" ot the time bottom was mado et 38 in February, 1915,
On account of tho importance of this top ond a 20-year: cycle running out hero, .
we would start a 45° anglo and other angles, if we neod ‘them, from "Oo" in May,

' May, 1931 would end a 7~ycar sels ef 84 months from: 1924, The 45° ongle
running up from "0" in May, 1924 crossed ot 84 in May,/1931. Noto that ‘ Stool
made lew ot 834 in Juno, 1931. In June, 1924 Steel made the last low at 942,
showing tho Amportonce of tho ond of the 20-year cycle, The'45? angle moving up
from "0" in Juno, 1924 crossed ot 84 in Juno, 195), and Stool doclined and rested
on this englo,

TWO 45° ANGLES FROM THE SAME BOTTOM

As we have proviously explainod, tho 45° anglo moves up at the rato of one
point per month and moves down at the rate of one point por month,

Refer to éxample on Chart HB:

id a oeeereee —
ae —| “4 hoi — 7
| BY 2)
WA
eo WA
eaae Adel 4 SOAP EEEeeeeerereerry
e a z
el EL A Ld)
SE LGEISE CBP PNP EEFELEEER EEE ree
SITTER CECE NERC EECEP EE Eee
Kk Z
]
4 %
2 i '@)
Se SSeS Se Searels a eee ee
eet ics t_ Ruy Aa i Ea
" Cf
gO ol = Tee | tL BF
ERS See eee eee tt hel SL 2
a

arn os
You will noto that tho ote on this ohart is shown as 62 ond the stock movos up

to a high of G3. A 45° angle ds drwm up from the begtom, end aftor the stock

reachos top and starts to work dom, it bronks tho 45°: ongle; gotting undor it at l
a prico of 59. You will noto that I havo dravm onothor 45° anglo dow from tho
bottom at 52. At the point whoro tho stock broaks undor tho.45° anglo moving up
from 52 to tho 45° angio moving dovm from 52, tho distanoo in points is 16, thoro-
foro tho anglos havo widencd until tho stock "could doclino 16 points, if it yront L
straight dovm, boforo it reachod tho 45° anglo moving dowm from tho bottom.

Note thet I havo shown dn tho chart that tho stock continuos dowm until it L
rocchos 40, whore it rests on tho 45° ongle from the bottom at-52. This would
indioato tho strongost support point ond at loast oa temporary rolly, ospocially
as the stock is down ,75 points from the top, Later you will find undor "Resist- [
anco Lovols" thet 22% to 24 points is.a strong support: point. .

U. S. STEEL; Tako tho oxtromo low point of U. $. Steol ot 1114 in January, 1927,
j Start a 45° anglo on the monthly chart moving up at tho rate of

one point per month— thon start a 45° ongle moving down ot tho samo rato, ‘This

shows tho spreading of tho anglos and what con happon whon Stool broaks mdor tho

45° onglo coming up from thet bottom ond tho ‘point whero it oan docline in ox L
tromo eaiahy markots, liko 1931 end 1932. --% :

Tho 45° angle coming up from tho low of Jenvery, 1927 crossed ot 156 in {
October, 1930. Whon U. S. Steel broko this onglo it wont right on down to 134% al
in December, 1930, whore it tested on tho onglo of 2 x 1 from this bottom of Jonu- -
ory, 1927- thon ‘rallied to Fobruary, 1931, ond ot tho time it broko wdor tho
anglo of 45° from. 1114, it was on tho 45th month, onothor indication of a sherp,
severe doclinos Horo wo look at tho 45° anglo moving down from 1114 ond find it
is 90 points dowm from tho 45° angle moving up from 1113. Those onglos soparato

at tho rato of two points por month and boing 45 months from tho bottom, tho stock
Would have to docline 90 points to striko the 45° onglo moving down from tho bot—
tom. Tho anglos boing so wido apart indicatod that tho stock could hava, ao wide—
opon broak, This happoned | in Decomber, 1931, whon Stoel broke wndor tho" “450

angle moving down from 1114, putting it into a vory woak position- in fact, in
tho weakost position that a stock can got in ae it can rocovor this anglo.

In Juno, 1932, whon U. S. Stocl doclinod to 214, it had dropped undor tho 45°

anglo moving down from tho last low of 113% mado in March, 1925, and closed two
months bolow this angle boforo it startod to rocovor onglds.

This shows that whon a stock gots into a very eteckc? position by dropping yn-~ |
dqr important anglos moving down from bottoms, aftor having broken strong anglos
moving up from bottoms, it can doclino to very low lovels.': Thoso extreme fluctue~
tions and declinos have happened in tho past and will happen ogain in tho future. !

This proves the squaring out of Timo on the down side or = valoncing up of
Prico ond Tima,

Hore is onothor illustration of tho baloncing of ‘Price ‘with Timo; The pees
of 45° moving up from "0" from the bottom at 21 from October, 1907 crossed at
262 in September, 1929 and Steel advanced to 261%, which shows that in 262 months
from the bottom in 1907 Steel had advanced’ ‘an spimadast of one point per month.
By striking the 45° angle and failing to cross it, it indicated that the Time
was: up and aes the stock was vuraang dovmtrend for a prolonged bear market,

ANGLES OR MOVING-AVERAGE LINES FROM ONE TOP TO THE NEXT TOP

Refer to exemple on Chert #9 on page 17.

175
~~ wt am A  - S  o S

176

Pa al He EERE EEE EEE eEEE EEE eT ———
ECT) A) Rea eC
Cd feed Bete teed bod Ce ee ee SERRE — i ba
Cee eee Z Z
= Z
Fe i cj") i =A R Z
ee a ae maa q
lege tll al] ales =
Pied Hale
ae AD feet edt [ef sly | CI ee [ey eee aes
y~ a a aes
a
= |
PEEP S = Ni
Ee aetslelels

You will see that we have started the bottom at 60. Tho stock ddvences six
months to 74, to a point marked "2" end makes top-—-reacts for throe months to 64,
breaking tho 45° angle but rosting on tho onglo of 2 x 1 from tho bottom--thon
starts advancing ond- finally crosses again the 45° ongle from 60, getting ‘into a
stronger position, huving rogainod this ongle., In order to detormine where it
might meet resistence,.as it is in new high territory, we draw a 45° ole from
the top at 74, The stock advances to 90 on-the 22nd month from the bottom, strik-
ing tho 45° angle from the first top at -74, on the 16th. month from the first top,
Boing 16 points up abovo tho first top, the Timo equals tho advonco in tho Price
above the first top, The 45° anglo shows that this isa strong Rosistence point
and a placo to go short with stop one to throe points above the 45° anglo, A
decline starts ond in the third month the stock agein breaks under the 45° angle
from tho bottom (ot 60) at a very. high lovel,s In other words, it is 24 points up
from tho bottom and is now in a much woaker position, “becauso it is so fer from

tho baso of support, and indicetes a declino egein to the engle of. 2 x 1 (marked
in groon). 2 a

Don't ovorlook this rule: After a stock has advenced to a new high. level,
then declines to the old top et 74, this may be a support point unless it. breaks’
3 points under it’ .If it does and also breaks the engle of 2x 1, it will-be in

a weaker position and the next point to watch for: support end o rally would be the
next bottom at 64, ; =

ANGLES FROM BOTTOM OF FINST SHARP DECLINE’:

When a stock that has been advancing for some time, makes top and holds for
several days, several weeks or several months, then turns the trend dovm ond has
a sharp, severo decline, there is clweys a rally after this first decline, It
usually makes a lower top on this secondary rally ond then starts to work lowor
agoin. The bottom of tho first decline is a very important point to draw angles

’

.
177

Marv av -

from, ospeoially tho 45° onglo moving down, as I have dono on the -ohart markod

Form #10,
Sel RISTO Ree ieee ceases!
PEEERI-EREEEECER Eee cece eee
RE EP EEE RIPE CCP ER ESE EEE EEE EE CREE DEE
es RE Ee ea aA
_| ie NIST Z
mya .
rE BE
Heer + FEC OREECEEPESS Seo
EERE EV EAs EERE ERAS eee EEE EEE
+ a 7 NS! —T “Ny
ECCCC Eerie 2 le eS Corer
a
TERRA ePSCEEEEEESEEECE EEE
[——| —| =<} II — aunties | = —_
scone 7
SPEIER EERE EIR EEC EEE RISSs Ee CCCPSCECECE
ea Se ere PD Fa FN LH FH ww ie

.

This. chart shows the stock rallying up to arowmd 75, where the 45° angle
coming up from tho last bottom crossos the angle of 2.x 1 coming down from the
top. Thon the declino started ond ot 66 tho stock broke back wndor tho angle
of 45° from, the? ‘top, which put it in a very woek position. It declined to the
onglo of 45° coming dovm from the bottom of tho first sharp declino, This would
bo tho squaring out of timo from the bottom and would be a place to buy, for a
rally. <A stock will often decline ond drop a little below this engle from the
bottom——then if it holds for severcl days J or wooks undor - this angle or on it, ;
it is a placo to buy for a rally,

On a Monthly Chart always carry this angle dowm.from the bottom“of the
first sharp decline, as it often becomes very import ont leter on ine cempaign.

After a stock has been advancing for some time and then‘has a sharp break
lasting 2°to 3 days, 2 to 3 weeks, or 2 to 3 months—-then rallies and afterward

breaks under the lows of this first sharp break, it indicates that the main trend
has turned down ond that 1t is going lowor,

Apply the same rule when e stock has been declining for o ‘long time and then
makes a sharp, quick recovery for 2 to 3 duys', 2 to 3.weeks, or.2 to 3 months,
then reacts ond then crosses this first rally point that it made, en indication
of higher prices. . ve - oe F

LAST SWING IN A BULL OR BEAR MARKED :

It is important to draw tian’ oo the point ‘where the market starts up |
and makog its last run in o bull markot. Rofoer to Chart ie11- on page 19.

In this example note point marked "last bottom". In-the lost stcago of the
bull market a fast udvance follows to a price of 84, Wo have drawn tho cngle

ae a a a ee ee |

reo rTere Te ee SS CU

— eo

178

GAA=TY

of 2x 1 (a gain of 2 points por dey, woek or month) ond tho 45° anglo from this
bottom. Whon the ongle of 2 x 1 was broken, it indicated that the trond had.
turnod dowmm. Tho stook doclinod and rostod on tho 469 mglo--thon ralliod ond
mado a socond lowor top-- thon broko tho 45° anglo-— declinod sharply ond rostoed
on tho 45° anglo drawm from tho top ot 84, which indioatod thet Timo and’ Prico
had squarod out or wore oqual. This would be a point to buy, with o mg loss
ordor 2 to 3 points under this onglo, for a rally- back to the | Bugle of 2 x 1 from
tho top, as shown on tho chart.

In very activo fast-moving markets a stock may stay above tho angle of 4x 1
or tho englo of 8 x 1 from the “last bottom," but on tho daily or wockly chart
oftor this first acuto anglo is brokon, it indicatos bei the trond has turned
down. “a

Always romombor that after a pr -olonged advenco, .whon the main trond -turns
down, it is safor to wait for rallies end soll short then to-buy against the

trond,
yer roe a err —
FPEEPEEPL CEES CREP EERE CEREEE REE EEE
“Akar HEE AERA a
“ iil (i fs WY e ateae
soa aa oval tac a ee pee Ee ae / |_| 412) Iva 212 = =
I = -|— ery =e Ny CGR eee PP se J
a J
Se ee es i el | RS eS iz et Pa at (EP a —
roo CECE CCAP RSE EE Cee Ee
= 2S ee (A ees a PR: BEF FR fe PAB | il
Peer err ices a=
ey — Exe KC aS a
= L = IN N = ile
Fea (al BS en &
a Se aa er N tf.
mw
SE a E i
=A --AS2- FEES eee SCE SEE CRE
ES a Fa PT a Vi DD ec LAG AE
Pa a YD fr Ow Oe i z
eI [me in oe i ee | EEN :
LL eee ld FL Ra
PAS setae a log im BS zi
Bs al a i a

All of thoso rulos aro rovorsed at tho ond of a boar markot or sharp do-
clino, It is important to noto when the markot starts down from tho last top .
or rally and makes its last run to bottom. Draw angles from this’ las p:.end
watch whon tho markot roaches a importent ongles ond crosses thom ae

exemplo:

On March 9, 1932 tho Dow-Jonos 30 Industrial Averagos mado lnst topiat - 90,
from which a a docline followod, with vory small roallios, roaching bottom at.. ca
July 8, 1932. Noto on tho woekly chart that tho onglo of 2 x 1 from the ‘top at 90
crossod at SO in tho week onding July $0, 1932 ond aftor thoy crossod this lovel
thoy nover doclined to SO agein, and advanced to 81 in Soptembor, 1952. The cross—

179

'. point of this was at 80. In September, 1932 the Averages rallied to 8l-— then.

- SECTIONS OF MARKET CAMPAIGNS:

“cording to‘the price of the stock--then the advance is resumed and the. stock : :
crosses the high level of the first section, moves higher, halts again,-and reacts

ing of this angle was the first definite indication that the main trend had
turned up.

It is also important to review the major swing from November 9, 1931, when
the Averages reached a high of 119, to the low at 404 in July, 1932. This was
the last big swing of the bear market, a deciine of 79-points. The half-way

after they reacted to 50 and advanced, getting above the half-way point, and
crossed 81, they indicated an advance to 119 anyway, After they crossed the

half-way point the second time and advanced above 81, they never sold down to it
again until they advanced to 1494 in November, 1935.

After a stock has been advancing for a long time, in the last run when there
is a lot of momentum, it may cross angles from previous tops or bottoms, then fall
back under them, which is an indication of weakness. When a stock has a sharp
decline and is making bottom, it will drop under important angles and then re-

cover quickly, getting above them, which shows that it is’getting into a strong
position and changing trend.

ANGLES FROM HIGHER BOTTOMS AND LOWER TOPS

What rule’ should be followed when stocks make higher bottoms and lower tops?

As stocks advance and: make higher bottoms on ‘the monthly, weekly or daily
chart, you should always draw angles from higher bottoms. Then, in the last

section of a bull market, if these important angles are’ broken from the last bot-
tom, you know that the trend has turned down. ;

‘Apply this same rule as a market declines. Draw the angles from each lower
top and watch thet angles until the stocks again cross the’ 45° angle from a second,

third, or fourth lower top. The second lower: top or second higher bottom is al-
ways very important to draw angles from and to measure Time from as well,

Ns
Example: Dow-Jones. Industrial Averages—

September 3, 1929 - Extreme high-

November 13, 1929 ~ Bottom of first sharp decline-

April 17, 1930 ~ Big rally in bear market, second lower top-

July 8, 1932 - Extreme low, final bottom-
September 8, 1952 - Top of first sharp advance after bear market
ended~

- February and March, 1933 - Second higher bottom from which bull
market was resumed.
These ere the most important tops and aaeune ‘to draw angles from.

All market cians, up or down, move in 3 to. 4 sections. When an advance

starts, the markét runs for several weeks or several months and then halts:for’ |
several weeks or months, moving up and down over a range of ‘5 to 20 points, .ac-

for a period of time-- then crosses the top pf the’second section and moves up
again for another period of time and halts for the third time, which is a very
important point to watch as markets often culminate at the end of the third
section and a bigger decline follows,

a fess Ta ee a 2 = soe rrr ee
180

Most markets run out in three important sections or campaigns. However ,
after resting and reacting, if a stock crosses the third top, it will then move
Up to the top of the fourth section. This fourth advance may. be a shorter period
of time than the previous sections, or in some cases may consume a greater period
of time, especially if the stock is very active and high-priced. This fourth top

is very important ‘and generally marks a culmination anda reversal for a bigger
decline, j

For example? On March 12, 1935.CHRYSLER MOTORS declined and made low at 31--

FIRST SECTION of the advance carried the stock up to. 49% on May 16-
then the stock declined to 414.

SECOND SECTION— On June 27 the advance started and the stock advanced to
new high levels, reaching 62% on August 10, which was top

of the second section- then there was a reaction to 574
and a resting period... ;

THIRD SECTION— Then there was another advance which started August 28.
The stock crossed the top of the.second section and reached
high at 74 on September 11, top of ‘the. third section. Then
followed a reaction to.68 on September .21.°°.-
FOURTH SECTION— In October the top of the.third section was crossed and
on November 18 Chrysler reached 90;.'top.:of ‘the fourth
section, where it held for 5 weeks in a:6-point range while
distribution was taking place. This was “a most important
point to watch fora final top-and a change in trend. Then
the trend turned down, ‘en. ae
Reverse this rule in a bear market. Watch-the action ofthe market when it
makes the third and fourth decline. But, remember, in a, bear market when ral-
lies come, they may make only one section or one move or: in extreme cases only
make'the second segtion~ then reverse and follow the main trend down.

You will find it very:helpful to study and watch these ‘var ious sectiays of
a campaign and by applying the angles from Lops and bottoms you can detect “the
first minor and major changes jin trend. ax qegie se :

_. STRENGTH OR WEAKNESS DENOTED BY POSITION ON ANGLES a

The angles on the Monthly and Weekly Charts are of. greater importance than
those on the Daily Chart because the daily trend can change quite often, while

ig the major changes are shown according to the angles’ on the Monthly and Week-~
ly Charts, ve oe , :

Always consider the distance a stock is
breaks any important angle or crosses any imp
the beginning point, the more important the-c
crossing an angle fromthe top or breaking un

from ita beginning point when it
ortant angle, The further away from
hange in trend, whether. this is’ —
der an angle from the bottom.-

WHEN A STOCK IS IN THE WEAKEST POSITION:

’ broken under a 45°

; a ae ee |
ne ee ee
= ; ,

A stock is in the weakest position when it has completed.:distribution and
angle from an important bottom on the weekly or monthly chart.
It is also in the weakest position when it has broken under the half-way point
between any important top or bottom. The longer the time period has run and

the higher the price, the weaker the position, for example:
. WE=CS

If a stcole has advancod to 150 and has only moved down 25 points whon tho
45° anglo from an oxtromo low on a wookly or a monthly chart is brokon, thon it is
in a vory woak position becouse it is so far above tho half-way point on its
prico movemont, alroady having squared out the timo period with price.

Woalmess in ao stock dovelops when it breaks the 3/4-point, tho 2/3-point,
tho 1/2-point, otc., but the position on tho timing onglos from tho bottom tells
you still more about. the weak position. A stock shows its first woaknoss who

it broaks the first importont angle coming up from tho last bottom in the final
run in a bull markot.

WHEN A STOCK Is IN THE STRONGEST spa oe

A stock is always in tho srcwmeen position coming’ up from a bottom whon

it is holding above the vory acuto ongles on the anni weeny or monthly charts,
especially on monthly ond weekly charts.

As long as a stock holds above the angle of 2 xl (a gain of 2 points per
day) on the daily chart, it is in a very strong-position as-far as tho bottom is
concernod. In fact, it is always in o strong position: on tho daily as long as
it holds abovo the 45° angle. The samo applies ‘to asap and monthly charts,
which are the most importent trond indicators.

r

I have found that the stocks which haye the biggest advences are those thet
always hold above the angle of 2 x 1 on the monthly chart or gain 2 points por
month for a long period of time. I have seen stocks rest 10 or 15. times on the
angle of 2 x 1 and never break it until they have advanced 100 points or more. i
In this way a stock stays ahoad of time and stays within the square of time by
boing for above -the anglo of 45°, ond thorefore is in a very strong position.
But the time must come when the epee has run out and the main trend begins to

change from a bull market to a bear market-—-then the bresking of the engle from =
the last bottom shows a change in trend. Wa"
Another indication that a stock is in a strong position is when it advances -

and moves up above the helf-way point of the previous price movement ond then
holds the half-way point, thot is, advances above it. and then reacts ond fails

to broak under it. This is just the same as resting on ‘ao 45° angle and indi-
catos a very strong pos sition.

STRONGEST BUYING AND SELLING POINTS =

The cinch buying point is when a stock rests on a 45° ongle, placing a stop
loss order bolow it.

fnother point to buy is on tho half-way point of the price movoment, placing
® stop loss ordor, under the half-wey point. ~

fee bee Li. L—

When tho main trond is up, it is also safo to buy when a stock roncts to tho
ungle of 2 x 1 (a gain of 2 points por time poriod) on tho weakly or monthly”
chert. 4 ws :

a

REGAINING ANGLES OR CROSSING LINES:

fmm

Remember, whon any stock breaks under the 45° angle from the extreme low
point of ‘2 move on the daily, woekly or monthly chart, it is then in a very weak
position end indicates a decline to the next angle. Howovor, when x stock cm

Bosses

bare
|

18]
182

GA-23.
regain the 45° ongle, it is in o stronger position, .
Tho samo rule applios to a 45% angle dram up from any. top. ¥Vhon a stook

crosses the angle on the daily, weokly or monthly ond stays above tho 45° angle
or eny other ongle to tho left of the 45° oanglo, it is in a very strong Pes ition,

After a stock onco drops below or gets above any important onglo ond then
rovorsos its position by gotting back above the onglo or dropping back bolow it,
it chongos tho trond again.

WHEN A STOCK IS IN STRONG POSITION FRON BOTTOM AND IN WEAK’ POSITION FROM TOP:

A stock is in a strong yes tease from tho bottom when it is kooping above tho
engle of 45° or.the angle of 2 xl, but ot the samo time it con be in a weak .
position when it rallies up ond strikes against a 45° angle or the anglo of 2. nal
coming down from the top— then it is-a short sale until it can cross these angles

or cross provious tops. When it brooks tho engios sahip! tho bottom, it is ina
weak position and indicatos lower. :

A stock can be in a strong position. from the top: ‘and! ino weak position from
the bottom, thet is, it may cross some important ‘angles from tho top aftor’ a’ .
long poriod-of time, but et tho same timo may broak under the 2 x 1 onglo or- 450.

engle from the bottom, which would indicate that at is in a weak position and
getting ready to go lower. aie

WHEN ANGLES FROM EXTREME TCP ARE CROSSED:

Ke

The 45° angl ¢ dreim from the extreme high point of a — is most important
and whon it istcrossod, QO major move may be oxpocted., For example:

. On tho wookly chart of the Dow—Jonos Industrial Avorages, noto t Q. 45° onglo
moving dovm from 386, the high of Soptombor 3, 1929. January 12, 1935 Was 279
wooks from: “the 1929 top. Taking 279 from 386, we got 107, the price at which the
onglo of 45° would cross. Theso Averages advanood to .1063 in tho woek onding
Jonuary 12, 1955-— thon roactod to 100 in the wook ending Fobruary 9. This was
tho first time. thet they had hold within one-half point of this ogle ond the
first time that they had over roachod it sinco the top was-mado. During tho
wock ending Fobrucery 16, 1935, tho Avorages crossed..tho 45°° anglo at 105 for the
first time, and during thie woek ending February 23, "1938 advanced to 108, whore
thoy hit the englo of 45° moving up from the low’ of’ 853 vin Sovtember, 1934, ond
also hit the onglo of 2 x 1 coming up from the low of. July 8, 1932. Tris was a
strong resistanco point and the Avorogos reactod to 96 in she week onding March
18, 1935, whoro thoy rested on tho 45° anglo from the 1929 top and also whoro the
3 x 1 onglo (a gain of 1/3 point por woek) from September, 1929 coming up from
"QO" crossod tho anglo of 45° coming dorm from the 1929 top. This was a strong
support point for a chonge in trend. ho advanco started and the Averagos moved
up to now high lovols, This proves tho importance of anglos,, "espocially: tho 45°

angle drewn from any oxtreme top, and tho point oat which any’ ‘other. angle: ero. Se
tho 45° anglo. :

Watch the 45° ongle from 1929 top when it reaches "0" or when it 15-386 yoeks
down from the top. This will be in tho latter part of -Jonuary, 1957. Noto what
happons at thot time, :

ANGLES FOR SEMI-SEKLY CHART

Tho semi-wockly chart is a great holp et the ond of extremo advances or ,

extremes declines. By applying all of the rules and using the geometrical angles
from tops and bottoms on the. semi-weekly chart, you will often’ get an indication

of a change in trend two to three days before a change. in trend is shown on the
weekly chart. . .

A change in trend ‘on’ the Semi-weekly chart is‘ of greater .importance than a |
changé in trend on the daily chart. It is much better “to rely upon this chart
than on the daily chart when markets are in a-narrow trading range.

“ANGLES FOR NEW LISTED STOCKS
Years of experience and research, which has cost mea large amount of money

have enabled me to develop a method that will account for 211 market movements
and give rules to determine the trend from any top or bottom.

It is important to know how to determine the trend when a stock is first
listed on any exchange. When a stock has never fluctuated before, we have no top
ar: bottom to draw angles from, Therefore, in order to determine the trem, we
use the square of 90, which is 90 up and 90 across, and put: all the natural angles
on, like the Pattern Chart. As we have szid before, the square of 90 is very
important because it is one~quarter of a circle of 3609, and as 90° or the ver-

tical angle is the greatest angle that can be used, all.of the other angles are
found between "0" and "90", | a ;

If a new stock opens at 18 or any point below 224, then you could make .out a
Square of 224 to determine the position of the stock on angles. If the stock
opened at 36 or any point between 224 and 45, you could make up a square of 45.
If it opened at 50 or between 45 and 67, you could make up a square of 67%. How-
ever, you could place any stock opening at any price below 90 in the square of
90-and get its proper position and strength or weakness on.angles. If the stock

opened at 100 or above 90 and under 135, you could make up a square of 135, or
could make another square of 90 numbering from 90 to. 180. 2 Sigs
You could start a monthly chart on a square of 90 at the price where the
Stock opens or trading begins, as shown on U. S. Steel. (Refer to Special Analy-
sis of U. S, Steel.) After the stock breaks any of these ‘natural angles drawn
from "0", -it-is just the same as breaking under an angle drawn from a bottom.
When it crosses any of the angles draym down from "90", itt is just the same as
crossing an angle from a top, as you can see by experimenting with U. S. Steel
or any other stock, but always consider price resistance-levels and how much the
Stock is up or down from the bottom. or top. You can determine the first change in
trend by the 3-day or semi-weekly Chart, daily chart, and weekly chart by bringing

up the important Geometrical Angles from any higher or lower bottom as the market
movements develop.

-—QUICK CALCULATION OF ANGLES.

It is not necessary to draw these angles froma point a long way back. ‘.. =.
You can make the calculation and determine where they cross. For example: Sup-. -
pose in 1900, in the month of January, a stock made bottom at 15, -dnd we-wish to
calculate where the 45° angle will cross 10 years later in January, 1910.- The
45° angle rises at the rate of one point per month- then IO years would be 120
points or months-- add this to 15 at the botton-- then the 45° angle would cross

at 1355 in January, 1910: All of the other angles my be calculated a long period
back in the same way,

183

‘cinta’ sa avin me errr rr PP PSP Se Se
184

LL

ANGLES SELDOM USHD

3 x 2°ANGLE: This onglo of 3 x 2 on the loft sido of tho 45° angle risos at the
rato of 8 points in 12 months, A stock must show a gain of
3/4-point per month in order to koop above this angle. This anglo can be usod
whon othor -importont anglos from tho bottom havo sproad far apart, as it will
show tho position and rosistonce or support point be tyoon tho othor cngles.

LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE

On cll charts—-daily, wockly or monthly—-the price must move up or dovm on
the vertical angles. Thorofore, tho prico movement is tho samo as letitudo. You
should bogin with zoro or "0" on ony chart—-daily, weokly or monthly--end drew tho
important anglos- ond rosistanoo levels piaaeii which moasuro latitudo.

Noxt, numbor tho timo points in days, weeks or es aCrOss,_ ond ares the
horizontal angle at oach important naturel anglo, such os, 114 » 22%, 332, 45,

564, 67%, 782, 90, 1013, 1123, 120, otc. Thon you will oad “hon prico reachos
these important onglos “ond méets' resistanco,. a

Longitude moasurog tho timo running across the chart, as it movos ovor osch
dey, wook or month. Thorefore, you must koop your chart numborod from oach
important top and bottom in ordor to got tho timo moasuromont s _ aoa to
engles. Those important anglos, such as, 114, 22%, 33%, 45,-564, 60, 674, 78%,
$0, otc. from och bottom and top will-show you whore ‘tho strongost rosistence
in prico end time takos placo. Thoso angles provo the parnllel or crossing point.
Study past rocords snd soe what has happened when prices’ on-monthly charts reached
these important cxigles or time periods, : oe

For examp] oy; 90 points.up in price from "0" we. ares | an angle horizonelly
across tho chart, Thon .90 days, woeks or months, going to the right across the
chart, we draw a vortiea) cnglo up, which will cross the horizontal engle at 90
end prove the square, By keoping ull these angles up and cntisseiedean elo on
your charts, you: wiki know when important time cycles are. running out.

af the price of c rnke at 60 comes out on the 60th. ae, week or month, it
will meet strong resistance becouse it has reeched the: square of price with Time.
It is ut the some letitude or price and the same longitude or timo period. You
can alweys put the square of 90 on a-chart—-oither daily, weekly or monthly—-snd
use the naturel ongles, but I advise only using this on tho weekly end monthly.
You cen begin this square of 90 from any bottom or top, that is, going up 90
points, or from tho natural points, which aro 90, 135, 180, but you must not fail

to square the extreme low and high prico as well as the second and third lower
tops ond higher bottoms with Time. .

RULE FOR KEEPING TIME PERIODS ON CHARTS -

It 4s very important that you koep tho time periods on all of your charts,
carrying them ccross from the bottom and top of each important .move ‘in order to”
chock up ond know that you have your angles or moving-avorages at tho correct
point and to see where major and minor cycles indicate’ changes in trend.

TIME PERIODS FROM BOTTOMS: “Jhon a stock makes bottom one month ond then the
following month makes a higher bottom and a higher

top, or anyway, after it makes a higher bottom ond rallies for one month or more,

you cen start numbering from that bottom, The month that it makes the low be-—

longs to the old or downward movomont ond is the last move down. You count tho - |

first month up as one and then number across on the 1/2~inch squares, runing
them across, adding four each time.

For example: If a stock has made bottom and advanced 50 points, you look
down at the bottom:of the chart and find' that you are on the .25th month- then the
ongle of 2 x 1, moving up 2 points per month, would cross at 50, while the 45°

angle, moving up one point per month, would be at 25, and if the stock broke back
under 50 the following month, it would bo falling under the angle of 2 x 1 ond.
indicate a further decline. Now, if you had an error on the chart in the timing
or numbering across from the bottom, then the moving~average line or angle would
not ‘come out correctly.

TIMS PERIODS FROM TOPS:

After a stock has advenced and made on extreme high ‘and reacted for a few
days, a fewweeks, or a fow months, and you start putting on the angles from the
top down, you must then begin to number the time periods ‘across from the top.
Apply the same rule for the top: . The month, week or day that a stock makes ex-
treme high finishes the upward movement and is not tobe comted. You can count
the number of days, weeks or months moving across after that, allowing the top
month to be "0", the next month, week or day over to be "1", adding 4 across on
the squares to get the correct position, If this Time Period is carried across
on all the charts correctly, then you can always check up and find out if you
have made any mistake, in bringing down the angles or RETARE-SVeEeE? iow: :

\

For example: -After o stock has declined 75. points,” either on a weekly or:
monthly chart, the angles movo down the same, except ' where the spacing is dif- —
ferent. Assuming that the spacing is one vointpr oue-eighth inch, after it. has
moyed down 75 points and’ all the angles ore drewn down from the top, there may be
en error in thé .angle of 2 x 1 because your ruler may have slipped and you may
not have placod it correctly ofter it is dowm a distanco from the top. ow, in
order to prove exactly whero the ongle of 2 x 1 ‘comes: out, you determine the
number of time peripds thero are. If 40 days, weeks or months have beon required
-to deoline the 75 ‘points, the angle of 2 x 1 moving down :2-points per unit of
-time, would be dowm 80 from the top. If you find thot this sngle does not cross
at 80, thon you know ‘Shek you made an error and should correct it.

.

This is o simple way to always know when the angles or moving-lines ore
correct because you simply add the movemont to the bottom and subtract it from
the top. Sunpnose the price referred to above, when the stook has declined 75
points, was 150, thon subtracting 80 from the top’ st 150, the: angle would cross
at 70, and the prico of the stock dovm 75 points would be at 75, therofore it

would be above the angle of 2 x 1 from the top and in peeteirr for a rally LE
the time cycle indicated it.

POINTS FROM WHICH TO NUMBER TIME =

The most important point on the monthly high ond _ chart to carry the
time period from is from the extreme low of the life of a stock and also from)
the dete of incorporetion or from the date trading in tho stock began on the -
New York Stock Exchange. From tho oxtrame low point the timo poriod should al-

woys bo corried across on tho chart just tho samo as tho important angles should
bo continued right along for years.

re k '.

Tho next importent point to numbor from is a second or third higher bottom,

i}
Bemseeys

185 7
IZ

er A ee a A

a

|} | | —-| —- | — | — | | | ] — | SS} — |] SS} J

>

mea

al

Oe ed ed ee ee a a hr er on San

Ex

eels Ne Cer

sa A Se
é “oO

187

reaching low in Novemb

but you should not consider a bottom established until the market hao held up or.
advanced three to four months, then commence numberlnug from that botlom if iy
appears to be important. For example:

U.S. STEEL was incorporated February 25, 1901. Numbering. the months across

you will note that February, 1931, was 360 months, or: 30 years, from
the date of incorporation. Then start a new cycle and begin number ing across
from "0". This will be working out the second cycle or-circle of. 360°.

The next important point is the extreme low of 8}. made May 14,°1904. On:
the monthly chart carry the numbers across from this bottom, because it is the ™
lowest bottom ‘and therefore the most important. Note this 30-year cycle or
360 months ended May, 1934. : ef a is me ey aie

The next important point to number-from and draw the angles from, is the low
of 21} in Gctober,*1907, the first higher bottom. Then,*the next important is
the third higher bottom made in February, 1915. Always draw.the angles and num-
ber the months across from any other important bottoms where. campaigns start.

Use this same rule at tops. After top is reached and the trend turns down,
then carry the time numbers across from the top, but after any top is crossed
or bottom is broken that you are numbering from, then.do.not count that top or
bottom of_ importance to number from; except, to determine ‘a time period on another
cycle 3, 5, 7; 10 or 20 years ahead. Tops that stay for:a.long time without be-
ing crossed are always the most important to carry the Time. Periods from. The
extreme high reached by a stock is always most “important until that high is
crossed- then the next high point made on a secondary rally, which is always a
lower top;'is the next most important top to number from, For example~,

On U. S. Steel; you would carry the monthly. measurement across-first from
the high in April*1$01--then from the ‘extreme high in October:..1909, and next
from the high in May, 1917- then from the final high -in September, 1929, being
the most important to. measuré from, and also number from'the April, 1930~xep.

INDUSTRIAL AVERAGES: The Dow-Jones 30 Industrial Averages Feached extreme high

on September 3, 1929-- then declined sharply in the panic,

er 1929-~ from this low there was a rally to April, 1930,
which was the ladt high and very important to number f'rom because it was a

secondary top, the last rally ina bull market. After final low of the bear
market:was reached on July 8, 1932,.a sharp rally followed to September, 1932,
when top was reached-- then a slow décline followed, reaching bottom in late.
February and early 1933, making this a secondary higher bottom, from which
Stocks advanced to new high levels. The bottom in 1932 is the most important to
number from and the next bottom of March, 1933 is next. in importance.

Apply this same rule to weekly and daily bottoms ‘and tops. Discontinue the
time periods when any minor top or bottom is exceeded:-and carry only the main

figures on time periods from important tops and bottoms as long.as they remain
unbroken, a

The rule for discont inuing the use of tops and bottoms for Time Periods ‘is:

When a bottom or top is exceeded by three points, then discontinue the time period

from that bottom or top. -

Always note the number of months between extreme high and between extreme
low points and note what angle the tops and bottoms come out on.

i)

*o
>

inte tiie ccc cr err Se eS ee
188

=a ee elle lee eee Ul ee eee lel a |

__SQUARING THE PRICE RANGE WITH TIME

This is one of the most importent and valuable discoveries that I have ever
made, and if you stick strictly to the rule, and always watch a stock when Price
is squared by Time, or when time and Price come together, you will be able to
forecast the important changes in trend with greater accuracy.

The squaring-of Price with Time means as equal number of points up or down
balancing an equal number of time periods--either days, .weeks or months. For
example: If a stock has advanced 24 points in 24 days, then moving the 45°
angle or moving-average-line up.at the rate of one point per day, the timing
line or time period and the price of the stock are at the same level and the
stock is resting on a 45° angle and you should watch for an important change in
trend at this point. If a stock is to continue uptrend and remain in a strong
position, it must continue to advance and keep above the angle of 45°. If it
breaks back under this angle, then it is out of its square on the bear side of
the 45° angle and in a weaker position, When you are squaring out Time on a
daily chart, look at the weekly high and low chart and monthly high and low chart
and see if the stock is ina strong position and has yet to run out the time
periods, because on a daily chart it has to react and then recover a position,
squaring its price many times, as long as the weekly and monthly point up.

Market corrections or reactions are simply the squaring out of minor time periods

and later the big declines or big advances are the squaring out of major tine
periods. ‘ .

SQUARING THE RANGE: Refer to Form #12, where a range of 12 points is shown
“from 48 low to 60 high. Now, suppose a stock remains for
several weeks or several months, moving up or down, in this range, never getting
more than 12 points up from the bottom and not breaking the bottom: We start
the 45° angle from.the bottom of 48 and move it up to the top of the range to
60, then when we ste the stock is holding this range and not going higher, we
move the 45° angle back to the bottom; then back to the top of the range again,
moving it up or down over this range until the stock breaks out into new oy
levele or new high levels. You will find that every time the 45° angle reaches

the top of this range or the bottom of this range, there is some important change
in trend of the stock. -*

You can also use the angles of 2
2x 1 to the left as they aga
ere of some value.

les | x 1 to the right of the 45° angle and the
in divide the Time Period into two equal parts and

If a stock finally moves out of this range on the up side, then the angles
would begin at the new and higher bottom and move up, but from the point where
the stock went into new high, or from any important bottom made while it was in
the range, especially the last bottom that it made, which would be most important,
you should then begin an angle at that bottom and continue on up again; watch
When this angle is broken or when Time is squared out again with Price,
which would be important for another change in trend, either imajor- or minor... |

THREE WAYS TO SQUARE. TIME AND PRICE: :

We can square tho Range, that is, tho number of points from oxtreme low to |
oxtrome high, with Timo-— thon squaro tho oxtromo low point with Timo- ond oquaro
the extreme high point with Time, Whon.the markot passes “out of these squares .
and bréaks importent angles, the trend chenges up cr down.-- . i

1 -— The range that a stock makes bvotween extreme high end extrome low can be
Squared so long as it remains in the same price range. If the range is 25
points, it squares with 25 pericdsof Time-- days, weeks or months. Continue
to uso this time period as long as it stays in the same ronge. :

aes

2 — SQUARING TIME WITH BOTTOM OR EXTREME LOW PRICE:
Tho next important Price to square with Time is the lowest price or bottom
of any important dacline. For exemple: If the bottom of a stock is 25, then
at the end of 25 days, 25 weeks or 25 months, Time end Price ere equel. Then
watch for ea change in trend as based on its bottom or lowest selling price.
As long as a stock continues to hold one bottom end advances, you can always
use this timo period rumning across and continuing the time period, noting
every time it passes out of tho squares,:: Watch especially when the stock
reaches the third square, the fourth squaro,’ ond again the soventh and ninth
squares of its timo period. These squares only oocur frequently on the daily
or weekly charts, as the monthly, in most cases, would move out of ao range,
up or down,-before it squared a bottom as many as 7.or 9-times. However,
this does sometimes happen when a stock ie “in. a nerrow range for meny years.

i fo fo: TC) UF

3 — SQUARING TIME WITH TOP OR EXTREME ‘HIGH PRICE: . : .

The other important point to square Time with is the extreme high price of a
stock, The Time period must be carried across from the high of the daily,
weokly or ménthly, and the square of thé top price in Time must be noted

~ and watched for a chonge in trend. If the top of a stock is 50, then when
it has moved over 50 duys, 50 weeks or 50 months, it has reached ibe square
in Time and an importent change is indicated. This can:be determined by the
position of the angles from top and bottom. . For example:

L

L__!

Dow-Jones Industrial Averages— The high of 386 on” September 3, 1929 would
‘require 386 calendar days to equel ‘the Price in Time.’. This occurred on ©
September 23, 1930. Look at the chart and note how the trend changed and
turned dovm aromd thet time. Then, on October 14, 1931, it rum out this
period agein— ond again Novomber 4, 1932, Novombor 25, 1933, Decombor 16,
1934, ond January 6, 1955. Look up those dates end you will see that

important changes in trend occurred on the Daily Chart when this time period
of 386 days balanced tho price of 386.

ot i LO

Both major and minor tops and bottoms on all time periods must be wotched as
they square out right along. Most important of all is the extreme high

point on the monthly high ond low chart. This may bo very high and work out
a long time period bofore it squeres the top, in which caso you have to: Se
divide the price into 8 equal time periods ond watch the most important -*°.

points, like 1/4, 1/4, 1/2, $/4, but most important’ of ‘all is whon Timo. equals”
Price, ; mee

—

P i ri I.

When you are watching the position of a stock after it has squared out fron
a bottom or a top, always look up the time period ond the angles from the op-
posite direction, If the market is nearing a low point, squaring out a top, soo
how its relation is to the bottom as it might be in the second or third square

— ae

189 7
mma aS

190

VA-o0 -

period from the bottom, which would be a double indication for a change in trend.

SQUARING WEEKLY TIME PERIODS:

The year contains 52 weeks and the square of this in Time and Price is 52
by 52. Therefore you can make up a square ‘of 52 wide and /52-high; put on all
of the angles from "0"; then chart the weekly high and low prices of any stock
in this square. For example: If the low price of a stock is 50, then the top
of this weekly square would be 52 added to 50, which makes 102-as top. of the
Square. As long as the stock stays above 50 and moves up, it will be working
in the’ weekly square of 52, On the other hand’, if the stock makes top and works
down, you would make up a weekly square: 52 points. down from the top and 52 over
to get the time period. . . SS se §

_ You can take the past movement of. any stock, put on a square of 52 by 52,
and study the movement, noting 13 weeks’ or ‘one-fourth, .26..weeks: or- one-half, and °
39 weeks or three-fourths points on time, “and. the changes” in -trend: which take.
place when the stock'reaches these important Resistance~Points in Time ‘and Price.

You would watch fora change in trend around ‘these time periods.

SQUARING MONTHLY TIME “PERIODS: _ “oe,

_At the time a ‘stock breaks a 45° angle, if itis selling-at 135 on the
135th month, it is breaking a doubly strong Resistance Level-- a.strong angle
and a natural Resistance Level. This would. be Time and’ Space balancing at

Resistance Levels or geometrical angles and would indicate-a big Gecline to fol-

low. - Reverse this rule at the end of a bear campaign. +
On a monthly chart twelve months completes a year, theref ore the square of

12 is very importarit for working out time periods on the. monthly chart. The

. Square of 12 is 144 and important changes’often- occur ‘on: even 12 months! periods

from a bottom or top of a stock. It: will:help"you“if you“use-the Resistance,’ ”'

. Levels on prices of the even 12's, noting 24,.:36; 48,- 60.'-72;' 84, 96, -108, ate,

Watch how the stock acts .on angles when jt ‘reaches these - important Resistance
points in Price, . . ; 7 ae BEOR ES AS ac

PRICE AHBAD-OF TIME

. Why do stocks often cross the 45° angle on -the daily, weekly or monthly
chart, then have an advance for a short period: of time, decline and rest on the
same 45° angle? Because when the stock crosses the 45° angle the first time, it

has not run.out or overcome the square: of Time with Price,’ Therefore, on the
secondary reaction,.when it rests on the 45° angle, it is‘at a time when the

Stock has reached the square of distance in Time, After that a greater advance °
follows. , :

Reyerse this rule at the top of a bull market, When a stock breaks under
the 45° angle a long‘distance from the base or bottom,: it is most important,

Many times a stock will rest on the 45° angle in-the early stages of an advance,

then later, ona reacLion, rest en it again; then have a prolonged -advance,. re- ..

_ act and rest on the 45° again, and then advance to a higher ‘level; then break

the 45° angle‘the next’ Lime, which places it in an extremely weak position be-

, cause it is so far away from the base and so much time has elapsed since the

stock made low. Don't forget--It is most important when angles are broken on
she monthly and weekly charts,
pth —

This accounts for stocks that havo a sharp, quick’ doclino from tho top and
then advance and.mako a slightly highor top or a sorios of slightly lowor tops,
end work over until they overcome tho. squaro of the prico ‘range at & conparctive—
ly high lovoel end break tho 45° anglo, thon a fast doclino- follows.

STRONGEST ANGLES FOR MEASURING TIME AND PRICZ

90° ANGLE: Why is tho 90 degrco engle tho strongost, anglo of oll? Becauso it
is vorticaol or straight up and streight down.

180° ANGLE: Whot is tho next strongest anglo to tho 90° -onglo? Tho 180° anglo
bocauso it is square to tho 90° anglo, boing: 90° from the 90° anglo.

bocauso it is in opposition to 90, or 180° from. tho 90° anglo, which
equals 1/2 of the circlo, tho strogost point. .270 months equals
22% yoers, which is 1/2 of 45. oe"

360° ANGLE: What is the next strongost englo aftor 2702°-It is 360°, because it |
ends tho circlo and gots back-to tho boginning point and is opposito
180° or tho-half-vay point, or tho angle which equals 1/2 of the
circlo. x. g ste

120° AND 240° Whot onglos aro noxt strongest to 90, 180, 270, ond 360°?

~ _ ENGLES Answor: 120°end 240° angles; because they are 1/3 and 2/3 of the

—_—_—__——= oirole, 120° is 90 plus 30, whioh is 1/3 of 90. 240 is 180 plus
1/3 or 60, which makes these strong angles, especially strong for.

270° ANGLE: What is tho noxt strongost anglo-to tho 180°. onglo? The 270° engle [

measurements of time. :

45° — 135° — 2259 — 315°: What angles are next in -strength?
Answor: 45° ongle, because it is 1/2 of 90, bm
135° angle, because it is 90 plus 45,
225° angle, because it is %5.plus 1804y end
315° angle, because it is 45 ‘from 270.
The angle of 225° is'180 from 45 ond the
angle of 515° is 180 from 135.

L

CARDINAL & The angles of 90, 180, 270, and 360 form the. first important cross,
FIXED CROSS: knovm os the Cardina). Cross... The ongles of 45, 135, 225, and 315
. for the next importent cross, which is: lmown as the Fixed Cross.

These angles are vory important for the measurements of time end
space or prico, and volume...

ae oe

22h° - 674° - 782°; Why is tho anglo of 224° atronger then 113°? Because it is
; . ‘twice as much, boing the same reason that a 45° engle is
stronger then 2 223° engle. Agein, the angle of 67° is
14 times 45, thorofore quite strong when anything is moving
up toward 90°. 782° is stronger than 67$°;. becouse itis’ |
7/8 of 90, ond therofore ono of the strongest points before” ©
90 is rouchod—~important to watch both on timo, price, and
valumo. Many stocks have importent’-moves~ and mako tops or .°
pottoms around the 78th to 80th day, woek or month, but:
. don't overlook 84 months or 7 yoars, a strong time cycle.

Poa ons |

DIVISION OF $1: Yhy are the angles of 1/8 of a circle most important for timo
1/8-POINTS and space measuremont? Because we divide $1 into 1/2, 1/4, ond

— .—

191
ee ee

192

1/8 parts. Wo uoo 26 conta or ono quartor, 60 oonto or half dollar, ond long
yonrs ago we had 124 cont pieces, Whilo the most importent figuros of our basis
of money oro tho four quarters, wo do use the 1/8 part or 12% conts in #1) cal-
culations, Stock fluctuations are based on 1/8, 1/4, 3/8, i/2,.8/3, 3/4, 7/8

und the whole figure, Thersfore, eny price moasuremont as well as time will work
out closer to those figures when chengod into angles of time then 1/3 or 2/3
points. for the simplo roason thet the fluctuations moving in 1/8 proportion must
come out closer to thsse figures.

Figuring $100, or par, as a basis for stock pricos ond changing those prices
tc dogreos, 12% equals 45°, 25 equals 90°, 374 equals 135°, 50 equals 180°, 62%
eavols 225°, 75 oquals 270°, 82% equals gi6°, ond 100 equals 360°. For exemple:

When a stock selis at 50 on tho 180th day, woek or month, it is on the do-
groe of its timo onglo.

On Fobruary 1, 1915, U. S. Stoel mado a low st 38, which is closest to a
prico of 37%, which is 3/8 of 100 ond equals 135° anglo, : Stoel wes 14
years or 168 months old on Fobsuary 25, 1915, ond hit tho angle of 135°,
which showed that Steel was behind timo, but that it was in « strong
position, holding at 38 abovo the 135°: angle or the prico of 37z,

Whon Stool roachod 200, it oqualled 2 circles of 360°. hen it advanced

to 2618, it was closest to 624 in the third 100 or nearest the 225° angle
or 5/8 point, which is the strongest angle aftor it crossod the half-vey

point at 250 or 180° ongle.
- ~

Novombor, 1935

193

CHAPTER 10

FORECASTING BY

TIME CYCLES

fina nat nee er eee eee eS er eer eo

FORECASTING BY TIME CYCLES

TIME is the most important factor in detemmining market movements and by
studying the past records of the averages or individual stocks you will be

able to prove for yourself that history does repeat and that by knowing the past
you can tell the future.

The ancient hunters had a rule that when they were searching to locate an animal
in his den, they always followed his tracks backwards, figuring that it was the

shortest route to his lair. The quickest way for you to learn how to determine
future market movements is to study the past

"The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and
that which is done is that which shall be done, and there
is no new things under the sun." Eccl. 1: 9.

There is a definite relation between TIME and PRICE. In the previous lessons
you have learned about FORMATIONS and RESISTANCE LEVELS around old tops and
bottoms. Now, by a study of the TIME PERIODS and TIME CYCLES you will leam
why tops and bottoms are fommed at certain times and why Resistance Levels are
so strong at certain times and bottams and tops hold around them.

MAJOR TIME CYCLES

Everything moves in cycles as a result of the natural law of action and reaction.
By a study of the past, I have discovered what cycles repeat in the future.

There mist always be a major and a minor, a greater amd a lesser, a positive
and a negative. In order to be accurate in forecasting the future, you must

know the major cycles. The most money is made when fast moves and extreme
fluctuations occur at the end of major cycles.

I have experimented and compared past markets in order to locate the major
and minor cycles and determine in what years the cycles repeat in the future.

After years of research and practical tests, I have discovered that the follow
ing cycles are the most reliable to use:

10-YEAR CYCLES

The important cycle for forecasting is the cycle of around 10 years. Fluc-
tuations of about the same nature occur which produce extreme high or low every
10 years. Stocks work out important tops and bottoms very close to the even

10 year cycle, although at times bottoms or tops come out around 10% to 11 years
in extreme markets.

194

tl

The 10-year cycle equals 120 months. We divide this just the same as we divide
the range between bottoms and tops to get’ Resistance Levels. One-half of the
cycle would be 5 years or 60 months. One-fourth would be 24 years or 30 months.
One-eighth would be 15 months and one-sixteenth 74 months. One-third would be

40 months and two-thirds of the cycle would be 80 months. All of these time
periods are important to watch for changes in trend.

7~YEAR CYCLE

This cycle is 84 months. You should watch 7 years from any important top or
bottom and 42 months or one-half of this cycle. You will find many culminations
around the 42nd to 44th months. 21 months is one-fourth of 84 months, also im
portant. You will find many bottoms and tops 21 to 23 months apart. At times
prices make bottoms or tops 10 to 11 months from a previous top or bottom. This
is due to the fact that this period is one-eighth of the 7-year cycle.

5-YEAR CYCLE

This ‘cycle is very important because it is one-half of the 10-year cycle and
the smallest camplete cycle that the market works out.

MINOR CYCLES

The minor cycles are 3 years and 2 years. The smallest cycle is one year,
which often shows a change in trend in the 10th or 11th month.

RULES FOR FUTURE CYCLES

Prices move in 10-year cycles, which are worked out in 5-year cycles——a 5- ad
year cycle up and a 5-year cycle down. Begin with extreme tops and extreme
bottoms to figure all cycles, either major or minor.
1 - A bull campaign generally runs 5 years — 2 years up, 1 year down, and 2
years up, completing a 5-year cycle. The end of a 5-year campaign comes
in the 59th or 60th month. Always watch for the change in the 59th month. J
2 - A bear cycle often runs 5 years down — the first move 2 years down, then 1 _
year up, and 2 years down, completing the 5-year downswing. }

3 - Bull or bear campaigns seldom run more than 3 to 3% years up or down _
without a move of 3 to 6 months or one year in the opposite direction, ex- J
cept at the end of Major Cycles, like 1869 and 1929. Many campaigns culmi-
nate in the 23rd month, not running out the full 2 years. Watch the
weekly and monthly charts to determine whether the culmination will occur in Tl J

the 23rd, 24th, 27th or 30th month of the move, or in extreme campaigns in
the 34th to 35th or 41st to 42nd month.

4 - Adding 10 years to any top, it will give you top of the next 10 year cycle, J
repeating about the same average fluctuations.

5 - Adding 10 years to any bottom, it will give you the bottom of the next 10

year cycle, repeating the same kind of a year and about the same average J
fluctuations.

\

Se nS
195
\o
a

6 — Bear campaigns often mm out in 7-year cycles, or 3 years and 4 years from
any complete bottom. Fran any complete bottom of a cycle, first add 3 years
to get the next bottan; then add 4 years to that bottom to get bottom of 7-
year cycle. For example: 1914 bottom - add 3 years, gives 1917, low of panic;
then add 4 years to 1917, gives 1921, low of another depression.

To any final major or minor top, add 3 years to get the next top; then add 3
years to that top, which will give you the third top; add 4 years to the
third top to get the final top of a 10-year cycle. Sametimes a change in
trend from any top occurs before the end of the regular time period, there—
fore you should begin to watch the 27th, 34th, and 42nd months for a reversal.

8 - Adding 5 years to any top, it will give the next bottom of a 5-year cycle.
In order to get top of the next 5-year cycle, add 5 years to any bottom.
For example: 1917 was bottam of a big bear campaign; add 5 years give 1922,
top of a minor bull campaign. Why do I say, " p of a minor bull campaign?"
Because the major bull campaign was due to end in 1929.

1919 was top; adding 5 years to 1919 gives 1924 as bottom of a 5-year bear cycle.
Refer to Rules 1 and 2, which tell you that a bull or bear campaign seldom mms
more than 2 to 3 years in the same direction. The bear campaign from 1919 was

2 years down — 1920 and 1921; therefore, we only expect one-year rally in 1922;
then 2 years down — 1923 and 1924, which completes the 5~year bear cycle.

Looking back to 1913 and 1914, you will see that 1923 and 1924 must be bear
years to camplete the 10-year cycle from the bottams of 1913-1914. Then,

note 1917 bottom of a bear year; adding 7 years gives 1924 also as bottom of a
bear cycle. Then, adding 5 years to 1924 gives 1929 top of a cycle.

FORECASTING MONTHLY MOVES

Monthly moves can be determined by the same rules as yearly:

Add 3 months to an important bottom, then add 4, making 7, to get minor bottoms
and reaction points.

In big upswings a reaction will often not last over 2 months, the third month
being up, the same rule as in yearly cycle — 2 down and the third up.

In extreme markets, a reaction sometimes only lasts 2 or 3 weeks; then the

advance is resumed. In this way a market May Continue up for 12 months without
breaking a monthly bottom.

In a bull market the minor trend may reverse and run down 3 to 4 months; then
turn up and follow the main trend again.

In a bear market, the minor trend may run up to 3 to 4 months, then reverse and
follow the main trend, although, as a general rule, stocks never rally more than

2 months in a bear market; then start to break in the 3rd month and follow the
main trend down. ee
197

NATURAL SEASONAL TIME CHANGES

While we do not use the calendar months for time periods, unless an extreme
high or low should occur around January 2 or 3rd, we do use the Seasonal Time
Periods which are more important and many of the important highs and lows

have occurred around these Seasonal Time Periods. These periods are as follows:

December 21, any year

February 5
May 5
June 21
August 5
September 21
November 8

Then repeat, December 21, etc., for the 2nd and third years.

These Seasonal Time Periods divide the year into 8 equal parts of approximately
45 days each. You can divide these time periods into 2 equal parts which are
approximately 224; days. Example: December 21 to February 5 gives January 13
as the 4 period, and between June 21 to August 5 is July 14.

The variation from these Time Periods is usually.3 to 4 days before or after

the actual dates. The most important es in Grains occur during FEBRUARY, -
MAY, AUGUST and NOVEMBER, therefore; these dates and months are the most important
to watch for major changes in trend, but always keep in mind the dates of the

previous highs and lows of past years and watch for the change in trend around
these dates.

— ee ee ee es eee ie oe om
197

NATURAL SEASONAL TIME CHANGES

While we do not use the calendar months for time periods, unless an extreme
high or low should occur around January 2 or 3rd, we do use the Seasonal Time
Periods which are more important and many of the important highs and lows

have occurred around these Seasonal Time Periods. These periods are as follows:

December 21, any year

February 5
May 5
June 21
August 5
September 21
November 8

Then repeat, December 21, etc., for the 2nd and third years.

These Seasonal Time Periods divide the year into 8 equal parts of approximately
45 days each. You can divide these time periods into 2 equal parts which are
approximately 224; days. Example: December 21 to February 5 gives January 13
as the 4 period, and between June 21 to August 5 is July 14.

The variation from these Time Periods is usually.3 to 4 days before or after

the actual dates. The most important es in Grains occur during FEBRUARY, -
MAY, AUGUST and NOVEMBER, therefore; these dates and months are the most important
to watch for major changes in trend, but always keep in mind the dates of the

previous highs and lows of past years and watch for the change in trend around
these dates.

— ee ee ee es eee ie oe om
i Ww. dD. GANN
i sis A ee OL WALT. STREET

Maucra
ox Srocxs axp Commopstina NEW YOR iC Auxarcam Economic Ass’x
evuoa or “Tautu or Tux Stock Tare” Rovan Economic Society
“Watt Seaver Stock Srixcroa” _ Casex Aviazss

wwe “Tus tense. Tuau tux At” “Gaxwaut New Yoax™

AUBURN MOTORS

Tho chart encloscd on Auburn Motors has all of the natural important
angics plecod on it which shows the natural rosistance anglos obtainod by dividing
ap tho circle of 360°, we have usod only tho 45° anglos from tops ané bottoms,
sno $0 snglo and the horizontal angle, which is equal to an angle of 90°, Every
ssoc. squares itself according to price and tine and wkon it brezrs out of the
scuare one wey or the other continues to move in the same direction until it rcachos
crothor important 45° angle or-resistance point according to the time or price, Hs
use the anglos of 11.1/4, 22 1/2, 33 3/4, 45, 56 1/4, 60, 67 1/2, 72 3/4, 90° cae co
forth. Thon draw’ the 45° angle diagonally whero the time crosses the 45° angle from
ither the important top or bottcm.

The crossing of two right anglos is very important for 2 change in trend
as wo vill show on the example of Auburn Motors,

Auburn Motors made the oxtreme high on April 1, 1930, at 265 3/4; tiex
meco a second high on April 10th and a third final high on April 16, 1930, when tie
price r2achec 262 3/4. e draw the 45° angle from the top of april ist and anotker
450 angie from tho last top made on April 16th; then number the dys across and
Graw the 45° anglos bisecting the 45° angles from the top. ,

Examplo: April 15th tho 45° angle from April lst and the 45° angle fron
11 1/4 days over crossed at tho exact point where Auburn made the low price at this
tins. In other words, on April 15th Auburn meade bottom on two 45° angles; then
relliod to April léth, broke the 45° angle and the trend turnod down.

mado low on ths 22nd day, rellied only one day, then broke the day angle or time
angle of 33 3/4; nozt broko the moré important 45° angle, showing that it was
gotting woakor aii tha time. It made bottom at 180 on the 27th day from the top.
260 is always ar important resistance point bocauso it is’ ono-helf of tho circlo of
360°, Auburn rallied to 201. Tho noxt important resistance lovel is 202 1/2, or
22 1/29 adzed to 180. Auburn at this top was just under tho 450 angle. Next it
broke the <5° englo frox the day anglo of 56 1/4.

fay 20th, doclinod to 150, another important natural angle bocause it is
§/12 of x45 circle. This bottom was reachod on tho 40th market day. Auburn thon
rallis¢ .o 172 on tho 45th markot day, which is vory important for a chango in
trond and -top, Noxt it broko tho 45° angle drawn from tho bottom at.150; contin-
uod on dex; broke the 45° time anglo from 78 3/4, then broke the 45° anglo trom
90 timing angle, 90 is twice as strong os 45 and vory important for a change in
tronc.

Juno 23rd, this is an important date for g seasonel changs in trond.

Auburn dociinoé to 91, holdirig 1 point abovo the 90° price angle or rosistanco

vhich 1s always amportent for tops or bottoms. It was on the 67th day end 67 1/2
25 @ stony anglo.

Suly i7th, Auburn ralliod to 141 on tho 86th iay end failed to reach tho
anglo rom 101 1/4 days, Nozt it broko tho 45° anglo from 112 1/2 days; thon
oke tho 45° angle drawn from tho low of 91, which indicated that it was in a vos2k
sition and going lovor, Noto that 91 was tho lowest perallel anglo or lovost
° anglo from tho 45° anglos drawn from the tops of April lst and April 16th. This

j Note 23° or days over whore we reach the angle of 22 1/29 ane that Aubura

199
200

Pego #2 A.u,

parallol ves 53 points wide from April lst top and 59 wido from April 16th top. Th

bottom occurred on the 120th day timo anglo and 120 is important bocauso it 4s 1/3
of a circlo,.

August 12th, Auburn doclinod to 102, which is just abovo tho natural ro-

sistance angle of 101 1/4 and this bottom occurrod con tho 108th day and just ebcvo
tho 45° angle from tho 135th day timo anglo.

Soptombor 6th, Auburn rallicd to 135 and hit the 45° anglo from April 2
top. It was on the 135° natural resistance anglo, which is 3/8 of a circle ond very
strong. A stock is always a short salo tho first timo it rallies +o the 45° anglo
from its top, protocted with a stop-loss ordor 3 points abovo tho engle, and at tkis
point it was a saio short sale bocauso tho price was 135, thich oquals the crossing
of wo right englos. Auburn noxt broke undor tho 45° angle from tho bottom at 102

and tho 45° angle from tho 135th day. It continuod to break anglos and to vork into
veskor squaros until tho final bottom was roachod,

November 5, 1930, Auburn doclined to 60 3/8. 60 is always important to-
enusa it is 1/6 of a circlo. It mado this boticm on tho 177th markot day froma April
ist top. Note on tho 180th market day Auburn made o highor top and turned the trend
up for tho first timo. Tho bottom was roachod on tho 190th day anzlo or on a 45°

angle drawn Ciagonally from 190 days down from the top.

Novembor 17th, zor tho first timo sinco April 1930, Auburn crossed the ¢5°
angle from tho top of April 1st, whon tho price reachod 77, vhore tho trond turnod

up, Bnd put Auburn in e vory strong position becauso it crossod tho 45° anglo ‘at
such a low lovoel,

Note the top of Novcmbor 20th was made at 62 1/2, just under the 45° engle

z?rom tho top of April 16th. Then a doclino followod and bottom was reachod et 72 1/2
cr Novombor 28, 1930,

Novomber 29th, Auburn crossod tho 45° anglo from the April 16th top fer tke
zir:t timo, indicating that it was in a strongor position and that tho main trené hed
wurnod up beceuso it had crossod tho extromo outsido parcllol enzgle. This lov vas
meée sround 78 3/4, tho natural angio, and Auburn novor sold lowor aftor crossing
this outsido 45° englo until it advancod to 295 1/2 on April 14, 1931.

Aitar Auburn rogained or got abovo tho 45° anglo fron tho top of April
24, 1930, it startod rogaining 45° anglos and making highor parallols to tho leit of

-

si 45° anglo from 60 3/8 just tho rovorso of its movomont on tho way down fre=z
ze> 3/4 to 60 3/8. :

Decombor 18, 1930, Auburn advancod to 119 3/4. This was noarly twice +ho
prios of 60 3/8,and tho nstural englo, or 1/3 of a circlo, is at 120. This top
Cysurrod on tho 36th markot day,

Decembor 23rd, Auburn doclinod to 91 1/2 and mado a second bottom at 92
Deco=vor 27th, holding abovo tho 90° rosistanco point. Noto that 90 vas th

“vey point from 60 3/8 to 119.3/4, which showod that Auburn was in a strong

a
sition. Tho last lor o7 92 was roaochod on the 43rd market day, ond the prico wes
sve tho 45° anglo ¢ren 33 3/4 days.

1922, January Sth, auburn ralliod to 116 on tho 225th markot day froz the

— deem Genes! a — a, | ce

= Pe PSs eS Cn

201

Pago #3 -A.U.

top of April 1930. 225 4s always strong bocauso it is 5/8 of a circlo. Auburn thon
doclinod and broko tho 45° anglo drawn from tho bottom of 60 3/8,

January 14th ond 17th, doclinod to 101 1/4, which is tho natural rosistnnce
angie, Noto tho cross anglo of 101 1/4 and that tho prico was bottcm on tho 60th
arxet day, which your rulo tolls you is vory important for o change in trend be-
cause it is 1/6 of a circlo. Tho trond turnod up and Auburn cortinucd to got into
& strongor position on anglos,. :

January 22, 1931, Avburn crossod tho 45° anglo, markod in groon, fre= tho
Oth markot day and on January 26th crossod, or rogaincd, tho 45° anglo draun frc=
tho bottom at 60 3/8. Tho prico was 128 on tho 67 1/2 markot day anglo. hen e
stock regains tho 45° ang Lo from tho bottom it is in a vory strung position. Auburn
nevor got back to the 45° angle from 60 3/8 until it mado top on iprii 24, 1931, at
295 1/2. On tho advanco aftor crossing tho 45° anglo of €0 3/8, it continucd to
show strongth bocauso it workod into higher parallol anglos to tho loft of the
£50 anglo from tho bottom.

Fobruary 9, 1931, Auburn crossod tho 45° anglo drawn from tho top ct
119 3/4 made on Docombor 18, 1930. This was anothor indication of a vory strong
position.

Fobruary 26th, Auburn mado top ct 217 on tho 92nd markot G27 fro= tho
bottom or just 2 days ovor tho 90th day, which is clvays importent for a change in
trong. Noto tho natural rosistanco lovol at 213 3/4, Axdurn thon droppod back
undor this anglo and broko back undor tho 120 day timo anglo markod in groon, vhica
put it into 2 wookor position and indicatod a doclino. You cansoo that Auburn on
tho way up vorked to tho 45th. 90th, and othor important days on timo just tke scm
as it did on the way down.

beif
n

Varch 7th, Auburn doclinod to 175, just 5 points under 180, which is
of tho circlo, and it roachod tho 45° onglo which was 1/2 of tho distanco totus
the 45° anglo drawn from tho top of 119 3/4 and tho 45° angio draun from the 2:
top mado on Novombor 20, 1930, at 82 1/2. Auburn mado this top on tho 100th merkct
day and on tho 101st day crossed tho 120 groon anglo, which is tho timo angle. Tron
rcsdo tuo days tops on tho 45° anglo from 217 top. hon crossod the 45° angle from
the top at 217 ond novor droppod baek undor it and continued to mako higher parc-
liols to tho loft of tho 45° anglo from 60 3/8.

=
r)
+
a> Ss
e
=

April 16th, Auburn roachod oxtromo high of 295 1/2. This vasa dato for a
sccsonal change bocevso tho last high occurrod on April 16th, 1930, frox thick tke
tig doclinc follovod. Noto that tho samo width of parallol from the lovost 45°
onglo drewn from 101 1/4 and 103 1/2 bottoms mado January 14th and 19th, 1931, chich
wes 59 vido. April 14th, tko 180th day anglo, crosscd st 290, This was tho cross-
ig of 2 right anglos—ono tho parallol anglo of somo width of the fluctuaticns
from 263 3/4 to 91, and tho othor froxz tho oxtromo of 101 1/4 to 295 1/2. Ths samo
day that Auburn advancod abovo tho crossing of thoso parallol anglos of 290 it dace
clined and closod at 287, bolow thoso anglos indicating < wock position. Auburn
only closed 1 day abovo tho vidth of tho samo parallol on which it doclined, Thon
it startod brocking paraliol mglos and gotting into a woaker position right slong.

It is important to noto that 292 1/2 is an important rosistanco lovol bo-
couse it is 270, which is 3/4 of 3 circlo, plus 22 1/2, and Auburn failed to go over
taroo points abovo this anglo. aAnothor thing to considor is that from 60 3/6 to
202

Pago 7/4 AM.

295 1/2 Auburn was up 235 1/8 points, which wes noarly 2/3 of a circlo and cnother
reason 2or strong rosistanco. You should look up your rosistanco card and sc¢ tno
cthor important points sround this lovol. For oxamplo, Auburn's oxztromo high vos
524 and tho low on tho last movo 60 3/8 This would mako tho half-vey point

257 1/8. Auburn's oxtromo low of history was 31 3/4. This would moko tho holf-
vay point 272 1/2. Thon whon Auburn broko back ‘under tho first half-way point of
287 1/6 it andicatod woaknoss; next broaking tho halfe-vay point of the lifo
Zluctuation at 272 7/8, indicatod groater woaknoss. Tho nozt important point vos
257 or 1/2 of 514, tho highost prico ot which Auburn ovor sold. Thoroforc, whon
auburn broke undor 257 it was in a vory wook position and indicatod @ further story
doclino,.

April 20, Auburn doclinod to 180, gotting support on tho noturcl angle
or 1/2 of the circlo, This was on tho 315th merkut day from April 1930, od on tho
236th market day from the low of 60 3/8 and on tho 166th cclondar day. 165 is
ixportant bocauso it is 1/2 betwoon tho anglo of 150 and 180. Auburn mado bottcx
on tho 45th markot day from tho lov of 101 1/4 mado on January 14, 1931, It rostod
cn tho lovost parsllol anglo of 45°.

From 60 8/8 to 295 1/2 gives tho holfevay point ot 177 3/4 ond Auburn
holding sbovo this half-vay point showod it was in o strong position 2nd roady to
roliy. At that timo 176 1/2 vas on tho 45° anglo from 103 1/2, tho low of
January 19, 1951, and boing tho last and lowest 45° anglo it was tho strongost
support point, from which a rally must tako placo and tho stock vas a purchaso
with stop 3 points undcr.

_ April 24th, Auburn ralliod to 219 and hit tho 45° anglo from tho botton
of 175 mcdo on March 7th; thon broko beck undor 213 3/4, tho prico cnglo, ane
broke 146 1/4 tho day anglo.

April 30, 1931, Auburn doclinod to 187, rosting on the 45° anglo from tho
low of 103 1/2. A sharp rally followod ond on Mey 1st Auburn advancod to 227 2/2),
just undor tho 45° groon anglo from 157 1/2 dsys. This vas a cross-angle cnd olso
2 45° angle from tho top of 119 3/4, Tho prico of 225 was on = strong rosistcnce,
or 2250, which is 5/8 of o circlo, and Auburn failed to go 3 points sbove it. A
big broak follovod in tho afternoon of tho samc dy and Auburn doclinod to 1&4,
which vas 3 points undor lorest 45° anglo from 103 1/2, the bottom of Jonuary 19,
1931, ond was just abovo tho 45° groon anglo from tho 135th market dey and on tho
146th markot dey from Novonbor 5, 1930, and on tho 179th calondar day fra tho
bottom, which was a strong indicotion for bottom or a chango in trond. duburn
quickly rogeinod tho 45° anglo from tho lovost parallol; thon crossod tho 45° angle
éreun from 60 3/8.

May 5th, Auburn advancod to 225 1/2, vhoro it struck tho smc rosistcnce
of 225 on the natural rosistance anglos. It-hit a 45° anglo from thd low point of
183 end tho 45° anglo from tho top mado on May lst, and was just undor tho 45°
anglo from tho 157 1/2 day, a strong rosistanco point.

Mey 6%h, Auburn doélined to 203 on tho 45° groon anglo from tho 146 1/¢
ésy and boing just cbove tho natural rosistenco anglo of 202 1/2, it rocoivod strong
support, raliiod and crossod tho anglo of 45° fron 60 3/8 thich put .it again in a
vsry strong position.

Yer 9, 1931, Auburn advanced to 252. This was just undor tho 45° onglo
from 219, tno Low 6? March 30th oné on tho 22nd day from tho top of jpril 14, 1931.

ten” Lan! Lo. £:

—_, teem | ar,

aa lee oh
d

203

Page 7/5 A.u.

You will note that 257 is 1/2 of tho highest price at which Auburn ever sold—514.
May 9th was 330 market days trom April 1, 1920, which is important, and 103 market
days frox:50 3/8 and 185 Calondar days from é0 3/8, On.May 9th Auburn droppod teck
under the 45° angle from the i6¢ 3/4 dey, dsclinod to 237 whore it rested on the
anglo of 45° fren the top at 119 3/4 made January 18, 1931,

At this witing, May 9, 1931, Auburn is in a strong position cn Angles,

2 short solo on rallies with a stop at 260, which is 3 points above th
ay point, om 1/2 of 514, Tho stock is in a strong position on angles and
you have to wat:h tho 45° angle frem the top at 295 1/2 andthe angle marzed in
groon from 160, As long as Lbuburn can hold above the 45° angle from 60 2/8 it ds
still in a position to rally, but whon it broaks the 45° angle from 60 3/8 end
the lowest 45° angle from 101 1/4 and 1011/2, the bottoms of January 14th and
19th, 1931, it will then indicate a big decline,

If Auburn can cross 260, the noxt rosistance point will be around 273 end
the noxt eround 287 end should it get through the old top o? 295 1/2 er cress 3200,
it will thon indicate very much higher prices, You should always wetsh the 1/4 and
1/2 points yroz the last important bottom. In Auburn's presont positicn, the
point to watch would be between 180 and 252, Also 237 3/4 which is 1/2 fra: 295 1/2
tc 150. Auburn closod just around this point on May Sth, which is noer 240 and en
impertant resistance level, which ia 2/3 of the circle. Should Auburn break 234 now,
cor over 3 points under this halfeway point it will indicate lovor,

May 9, 1932.

CHAPTER 12

TIME & PRICE

RESISTANCE LEVELS

204
205

= pe ee OES eS eee eee eee ses el

THiS AD FRICS RESISTANCE LEVELS
by
WD. GANN

“DSKLY EIGI AND Lo CHART

The Weekly Chart is one o7 the most reliable trend in@icetors that we
use. The wieexly Tables for Frice and Tine -Resistence are very valuable
and enable you to determine ahead of tine the prices et which hizhs
and lows will be mede end the time or date when these extreme high or
low prices will be reached.

These Weexly Tables cover periocs of 7 days or 1 calender week. FEoweve
you do not start to number time periods from Jenuary 1 or the lst aay
of eny month. You tegin to count the time periods from the exact dates
of any extreme high or low price. You also use the dates of the minor
high and low prices both to begin to count time perioés from and to cet
price resistance and determine a change in trend.

NATURAL SZSaSONAL TIS FERIODS

These periods do not stert with the calender year but start with the
Spring Season March 20. The year is divided up into 8 eoual parts and
also divided into 1/3's which give two more time periods. These Time
Feriods are as follows:

Mar. 20 to Vay 5

is 1/8 of a year or 46 days
June 21 is 1/4 of a year or 91 days
July 23 is 1/3 of @ year or 121 days
Aug. 5 is 3/E of a year or 136 days
Sept 22 is 1/2 of e year or 182 days
Nov. § is 5/8 of a year or 227 days
Nov. 22 is 2/3 of a year or 242 days
Dec. 21 is 3/4 of a year or 273 days
Feb. 4 is 7/8 of @ year or 319 days
Mar. 20 is 1 year or 365 calendar days

All of these periods are important to watch for chanses in trend. The
most important are 1/2 end the end o? the season; next insortant 1/L
ené 3/4, and 1/3 ané 2/3.

MID-SzA50N POLITS
These are ‘4y 5, Aunust 5, November 8 and February 4. By checking over

past records of prices, you will see how often higks and lows heve
occurres during these periods.

TaBLes FCR TINS FSxIODS AND FRICS RISISTANCE

The Tables for Time Tericds and Price Resistance are -ace up tc cover
40 years in the future. “ou can also use them for 40 years in the past

a

a

TP-2

These Tebles measure Price end Tine Resistance from 62 to 2060. Zach
perios of one veer or 52 wees is shown at tre Bottom of the Tebsle and
the division of the yearly time periocés are sthov-n toth for the S5easona:
and Matural Tire Periods eané Zor the proportionate parts of a year
startins from the dete of any high or low price.

Below we give the Tables showing the Price and Time Periods.

1/8 of year L6 days 65 weeks Price 63
13

ij, * 91 days 13 " ta
1/3 " “ 121 édeys17. * *
3/6 * ™ 136 days 193 "* . 193
1/2 " ™ 1682 days 26 ig si 26
5/8 “ -" 227 days 324" "328
af/3 “ Zhe Gays 35 * a ao
3/, " ™ 273 days 39 e ue 39
7/8 * 319 days 45s * e 453
a m 365 days 52. ts " 52

From the above you cen see that the year is Givided into 10 divisions
of: Tire and startins with 63 to 52, the price is also dividec into

10 divisions. nese Tables continue the sare for 40 years or more,
mekinge eoual divisions. of Time and Frice.

PRISE RESISTANCE

The Price Resistance is calculeted in the same way at Tize Periods from
hichs and lows. Always calculate how much the price is up from tae lcw
levels or how much it is Gown fron high levels. In this way you sre

able to determine all of the important Frice Resistance Levels. Example

Suppose the low price is 50 and the current price is 102. 7T
52 from the low and ecuals 52 weeks or l year in time, makin
price important to watch for change in trend tecause it is a Tine and
Price Balance.

Suppose the high price has been 182 and at the time you look it up, the
stock or grain is selling et 130. This is et 1/2 or 24 years in tine
and the price is down 52 from the high which ecuals 1 year in tizxe.
This is also a Srice and Time Beiance and is important to watch for
chanse in trend.

Suppose the price makes him or low on 1/4 and the next high or low is
on 1/h of 1/2. This woule be important for chanse in trend.

From the low, suppose the time is on 1/, and 3/4 and fromthe high t
Sine is on 1/3 or 2/3, this is isport2nt for chenzre in trend, es ec
if the rrice is at 1/2 or 3/h resistance. (for more proo> see exe=
? actual marxet moves in the past.)

ro

os

(ledelutd wid toa FY err Sr SSeS

206 7
ame Re be Orel ee eee ee ese eee eee Ses Ss

207

l.

2.

3.

5e

7e

Wi

WNhr
ee

hese are:

TDICATIONS FOR CHAN3E IY TREND

Veena SN

U

“rr «7 sce

al FUICE BALATCE -- Synpose you wish to look up the tine
oc for 5 years, you lock at the bottom of colum 5 where you

tele
269, which is 26) weeks. Sursose the price is at 260. This

--i

Time and Frice Sslance and is very important for e chanze in

1 t-*! OD bY

ct erties HY
tS HH
{>

4

0)

|

Qu
°

Suppose at the end of 262 weeks the price is et 234, which is
1/2 end ecuals 42 years in Tize. This is next in isportence for
chanse in trend.

ANNIVERSARY DATES -- Always consider the anniversary date from extre
higas and lovis as important for ea change in trend.

DIVISIONS OF TITS -- Next consider 1/4, 1/3, 1/2, 2/3, and 3/4 of th
time periods isportant for a chnense in trend.

PRICS RESISTLICS ISVELS -- These seme Resistence Levels in Frice are
also importent to wetch Zor chanse in trend, especially when the
Time Feriod comes out at one of these importent divisions of price.
WSEELY BOTTCHS AND TOPS -- then you are studying the ‘Vieexly Chart,
always look to see if a weekly bottom has been broken or a weekly
high level has been crossed, which would be inportent for e chense
in trend. The ereeter the tire period from any high cr low level,
the more important it is when prices cross these levels.

DOUELE AD TRIPLE TOFS AD BoTrors --

awed

“hen these occur on irportant
Time Ferioés and at inportent Frice Resistance Levels, they are very
important to watch for change in trend and to expect a move to

start thet will last for a considerable length of time,

SxING S0TTOLS AND TOFS -- The breaking of a swing bottom or the
crossing of a swine top is very important for a change in trend.
“WING CHART -- You cen make up a Swing Chert by moving the price up
to the top of each week; then the first time the low of the previous
weex is broken, you move the swing line govm to the low o2 that week
“hen that week's bottom hes been broken, continue to move the line
down as lons as the price mazes lower tops end lower bottoms. The
first week that the price nekes a higher bottom and a higher top,
you move the line on the Swine Chart up to the top of that veek
and continue to move it up each week until there is e reversal,

7

WaoN MCST IMPORTANT CHANGES TEI TREND occur

Anniversery dates of previous hiczns 2nd lows
Next is 1/2 of each yearly period or 1&2 days froz any hish or low
“ext in import:nce is 1/4 ané 3/4 or 13 weexs and 39 weeks

4. Next is 1/3 and 2/3 or
5. Next is 3/6 ana 7/8 of a year or 194 and 35% weeks.
You can prove to yoursel? how well these rules work by going beck end

17 weeks and 35 weeks. |

ecneckins the Tine per from highs and lows — several years ané
checking the price at which the stock or commodity “was selling and see
how it compares on the Tables for Frice and Time Resistance. This pues
give you the value of these Time Tebles and Price Resistance Levels.

| wes

W.D. GANN

P=,

January 26, 1955

ee! be? bee! -_ Liman er eo

208
ae ieee eee eee

209

CHAPTER 13

How To SELL

PUTS & CALLS

ae
rr a ee ee ee eee
= =

210

HOW TO SELL PUTS AWD CALLS

Many people know how te buy Puts and Calls but very few know how to sell then
or know that they can ell thom and get the premion money for the option,

When you sell a Put or a Col) on stocks, you are simply taking the oppasite
position to the one when you buy a Put or a Call, and there ore nore advantages on
the solling side, especially at certain periods:of the market.

Suppose you wish to buy U. ‘8. Steel. Naturally, you want to get in the market

and buy re the lowest level possible, but you cannot ba sure of the exact bottom,
Por exoepfe; We will assume that U. 8, steal Is selling at 66, and you feel that
you would be willing to buy {t if it declinss to around 62. You have your account
open with your broker and your money on deposit to cover the margin requirements to
buy uv. B. gteol. You give. your broker an ordsr to sell a Put on 4100 U. 8. Btoel.
good 30 days -~- which is always below the market, varying from 2 to 4 points to as
much as-49 to 45 points. We will assume that the broker sells the Put on U, 8. Steo
at 62, good 3 days,-and receives $442.50, which is credited to your account, This
{s the premium that you receive from the buyer. Then, wo will assume that U, 8,

Bteel does not decline to 62 before the yO-day Put oxplros. Therofore you will have
the $442.50 which you teceived for the put.

Then, if you are still Willing and want to buy U. 8. Stoel, you covld sell
another Put.on ico shares, good for yO days, at whatever number of points below-the
market the broker could get it. In this cage, vo will assumo that Steel is solling
around 63 and the broker sells tho Put for yeu qt 39. againtrecelving $412.50 cred-
ited to your account. Thon suppose U. 8. Bteol declinoo to fs and closes at the
end of 30 days at 5g. The man who béught fron you the Put on 400 U. 8. Btoeal at so
will put it to you or doliver it to your broker for 59 and you will have bought

Steel at sg and will have §250.q9 to your credit, the money you received on the Puts
solid, :

Then, we will assume that you are willing to take 4 or 5 points: profit on
U. 8. steel. You give your broker an ordet ta sell a Call on U. 8. Steel good 1%
days. Wo will assume he sells it at 64 and again you receive $142,50 premium. If
et the end of the 30 days U. &. Steel has not reached 6&4, You still have the stock
and have $375.00 to your credit, which you have receivod for selling Puta and Calls.

We will asdume that at the end of the 3O days U. 8. Bteel is sslling at 63.
you instruct your broker to sell a Call on U. 5S. Steel good 30 days, and he selis
it at 67 and receives $142.50 for your account. “at the end of the 30 dors, or when
the Call expires, y., 5s, steel {s selling at 69 and the man to whom you sold the Col)
demands delivery; then your broker delivers 400 U. ‘8. gteel for 67. You have sold
at 67 the 8teel that you bought ot 59 and have mado 8 points: profit or $800-00,
fees commission and interest, and you have received $450.00 premium money for the
Pets and Calls you sold, which {s just that much‘extra profit because you did not

teoke as much risk as you would if you had just bought y, g, ‘gteel or sold it with
$t selling the Puts or Calls.
SELLING CALLS TO GET SHORT OF TRE MARKET

-

Suppose you think the market is abolt high enough to sell short but You are
not sure just when and where the top will be reoched.
75 when you make up your ‘mind to sell it short. Then you give your broker an order
to sell a Call on 400 U. S. Steel good 39 days. He sells the Call at 80, which

mecns that if y. gs. steel ‘is selling above 80 at the end of 40 days, the man you
sold the option to will call it or buy it from you at go and you will be short at
gO with c credit of $442.50 which you received for the Call.

U. S. Steel is selling around

You might be able to sell Calls twice, three times, five times or more and
take in the premium money before the stock is colled. Suppose, after you have been

called for Steel at 80 — which puts you short at 60 —"yYou decide to sell a put.
You get it at 75, which gives you 5s points! profit

» and you again receive $442.50
for the Put good 30 days.

We will assume that ct the end of 36 days Steel is sell-
ing at 74 and the man vou sold the put to, delivers 400 shares of Steel te the brek-
er for your account. This mecne thet yeu have bought 400 shares at 75 and covered
your short position, moking a prefit of 5 points cr $500.00, less commission and

taxes; and at the same time you have made $22S5.cO extra by selling the Puts and
Calls and have taken no additioncl risk.

£OW 10 PROTECT YOURSELF IN SELLIKG PUTS OR CALLS

Whether you wont to enter the market or not, you can sell Puts or Calls and

can protect yourself by buying or selling the stock before the put or Coll expires-
For example:

Suppose you have sold a Ccll on Us §, Steel at go ahd You are not long or have
not bought y, Ss, gteel. When it advances to 78 of 79 you decide that you do not
want to sell it short aS the metket looks very sttohg. in ofder to protect yourself
you buy 1400 Bhares of y. gs, ‘stesl at 79. Then) we will assume that at the ond of
© days it closes at 67) the man you sold the Cali to demands dellvety of the stock
end you deliver or sell it to him at go. You have one point ptofit, because you
bought it at 79, and you have $:12,5C premium money that you received for the Call.

Suppose you sell a put on U. §. Steel at 72, good 30 days. Thmthe market
turns weak and is declining fast. When it reaches 74, you decide that it acts as if
it is going very much lower, and in order to protect yourself you sell 400 shares
cfu. g, steel short at 74. . Then, we will assume that the stock declines and
closes at 69, ond the man you seld the Put to at 72, G@elivers ysu the stock at 72,

which puts you out of the market and still gives you a profit of 2 points and the
premium money of $442-50.

When you are long of the market or have stocks bought, it is nearly always to
your advantage to sell Calls good 34¢ days until your stock is called, becausa if you
cre wrong and the merket goes agcinst you, you will be taxing in the premium money
you receive for the Calls, which will help to cover the loss on the stock.

When you are short of a stock, in most cases it will pay you to sell a Put
good 30 days and take in thé money, bacause if tho market doclines — as it often
does —- cnd fails to reach the Put price, you will still have the money you'received

for the Put and will still be short of the stock and can soll a Put for the next 30
days and take Ir another gi44z.50.

211

i!’ Be’ £..' L..* Eb

| a
