         How To Identify
             High-Profit
        Elliott Wave Trades
            in Real Time
Pinpointing Optimal Entry/Exit Points with the C Wave Method




                   Myles Wilson Walker




www.fx1618.com
                              About the Author



      Myles Wilson Walker has been trading full time since 1986 for himself and
   others. Initially skeptical about the value of Elliott Wave Principles, Mr. Walker
   conducted an intense study of all available literature. His goal was to distill the
  essential elements of Elliott's wave theory, then structure a successful trading
           program around them that was tradable in real time. This Mr. Walker
 accomplished, initially using the 24-hour currency markets as his main trading
 medium, then expanding the analysis to incorporate virtually all major markets.
        The results of this research are presented here in Mr. Walker's first book.
Mr. Walker was born in Auckland, New Zealand, where he currently resides.




     www.fx1618.com
                                     Contents


Introduction ....................................................................................... vii

Chapter 1 Basics of Counting Waves ............................................... 1
Midpoint Method of Wave Counting 6

Chapter 2 Elliott Wave Principles ..................................................... 7
Impulse Waves           8 Corrective Waves             18

Chapter 3 Guidelines for Counting Waves ..................................... 35
Counting Waves 48
Detecting Elliott Wave Patterns and C Wave Patterns                             51
Terms 51
Symbols of Wave Degree 53

Chapter 4 Logic of Counting Waves .............................................. 55




       www.fx1618.com
vi   Contents



Chapter 5 C Wave Patterns...............................................................f J
Method Objective for Impulsive and Corrective Markets                               82
Trade Strategy 83
C Wave Patterns and Trading Rules 84
Strong B Waves and Trading Rules 88
Five Wave Corrections and Trading Rules 94
List of C Wave Patterns 98

Chapter 6 How To Find C Wave Patterns........................................ 103

Chapter 7 Profit Takes ......................................................................111

Chapter 8 Alternate Counts and Recounts .................................... 115
Trading Large C Waves                126

Chapter 9 C Wave Patterns on Daily and Intraday Charts .......... 129
N.Y. Silver       130 Deutschemark Spot                 133

Chapter 10 C Wave Method in Action ........................................... 157
Entry 159
Managing the Trade               166
Conclusion 189

Summary ............................................................................. .'...............191

Appendix I Fibonacci in a Nutshell ............................................... 193

Appendix II Daily Worksheet .......................................................... 197

Index ................................................................................................. 207




       www.fx1618.com
                      Introduction



As a novice student, you would not expect to grasp the difficult concepts of
Elliott's Wave Principle instantly. Understanding and successfully using this
methodology for analyzing market price movements takes practice and
perseverance.
In essence, the Elliott Wave Principle maintains that markets advance or
decline in a series of wave patterns—five waves in the direction of the major
trend and three waves in the direction of the correction of the major trend. This
book is structured to help you broaden your knowledge base of Elliott's wave
analysis step-by-step. I suggest that your first reading be a quick scan of all the
material to give you an initial overview. Then, as you go back and study the
concepts, which are explained in numerous and subtly different ways, you will
find an approach that makes sense to you.
This book is essentially different from previous books on Elliott Wave in that I
have attempted to quantify aspects of the theory into practical and workable
guidelines with specific Buy and Sell patterns. There is no

                                                                                 vii




     www.fx1618.com
viii Introduction


longer any guesswork. You will be able to match the wave patterns as they are
happening in real time and execute the trade according to established rules.
One reason I wanted to publish this book was to pro vide other traders with
reliable Elliott Wave-based strat egies rather than a rehash of Elliott Wave theory.
Thus I have kept certain aspects of the theory to a minimus and presented the
material that I know from experi ence works. Until I can distill reliable rules, I feel
that it would be unfair to present other information as the truth when in fact it still
requires further research.
The first chapters of this book, which deal with Elliott Wave basics, will teach you
the concepts and help you understand the C wave patterns. These C wave patterns
are complete within themselves and stand alone without any other technical
indicators or other market inputs.




      www.fx1618.com
                                  Chapter


                                       1


                  Basics of Counting
                      Waves


Imagine a wave of water: It is made up of droplets. The I momentum of the water
flow has picked up the droplets and unified them in the same direction.
Between each wave is a trough of inactivity that sometimes runs counter as an
undercurrent. Waves of market activity behave much the same as waves of
water. At one moment all is quiet; then some new information hits the market
and everyone is active, the wave picks up and continues until it can no longer
be sustained. Then the market goes sideways through lack of activity or
countertrend (the wave trough) because of profit taking.
This ebb and flow of market activity represents the price waves that Ralph Nelson
Elliott categorized in his theory on market behavior during his pioneering work of
the late 1920s through the 1940s.




                                                                                 1




     www.fx1618.com
2   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Simply, a wave is seen as one constant direction in price-until it either stops and
goes sideways or the direction totally changes.




                          This wave (wave 1) is an upward moving wave.




The next wave (wave 2) goes in the opposite direction. In this case, wave 2 is
going down.




If you could see more detail of wave 1, you would see that it is made up of
smaller waves—in this case five.




      www.fx1618.com
1/ Basics of Counting Waves 3




Wave 2 consists of three smaller waves. When any wave is made up of three
smaller waves, each wave is given a letter, in this case a = 1, b = 2, c = 3.




Or wave 1 could be made up of only three smaller waves. If the wave consists of
only three waves, it is marked as wave A or wave a.




If wave 1 were made up of only three waves, then wave 2 would always be
marked as wave B or wave b.




     www.fx1618.com
4 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




In this instance, the second wave is going sideways. A sideways price area is a
wave and must be counted.




If you could see more detail of the sideways price movement, you could see that it is
made up of smaller waves.




Wave 3 is made up of five smaller waves.




      www.fx1618.com
1 / Basics of Counting Waves 5




Wave B ends, and wave C follows! Wave C usually consists of five waves.




Wave 4 is made up of three waves (the same as wave 2).




When wave 5 ends, the waves are then counted as one wave. At this stage, a
movement (market correction) opposite the trend is expected.




     www.fx1618.com
6 How To identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time



Midpoint Method of Wave Counting
Another way of counting waves, called the midpoint method, is to smooth the daily
data by using only the middle of the day's range. This method gives only one point of
data a day, which makes it easier to see possible waves.
The main drawback of the midpoint method is that it is not sensitive enough to detect
all the details of a C wave. However, when used in combination with detailed daily
charts, this method can be useful in offering fresh insight to a muddled trading
situation.




A single line connects the middle of each day's range.




      www.fx1618.com
Chapter


________________________________   2 ______


Elliott Wave Principles




A   ccording to Elliott Wave Theory, the market unfolds according to a basic
    pattern of five waves up and three waves down to form a complete cycle of
eight waves. The five waves up, called impulsive waves, occur in the direction of
the trend. The three waves down, called corrective waves, are a price reaction
against the trend. A sideways market is also considered corrective.
Most market analysis is concerned with the 80 percent of the time that the
market is in a corrective state.




                                                                               7




     www.fx1618.com
  8 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


  Impulse Waves

  An impulse wave is a movement in the direction of the major trend. An impulse
  wave must obey all the rules listed below (if it does not, the wave in question must
  be classified as a correction even if it is also moving in the direction of the major
  trend). Although this seems illogical at first, by applying the rules you will not mis-
  take a running correction for an impulse.

  Impulse Rules
  The following rules apply to impulse waves:
  • Wave 1, wave 3 and wave 5 are trending.
  • Wave 2 and wave 4 are corrections.
• Of wave 1, wave 3 and wave 5, wave 3 must not
  be the shortest.
  • Wave 2 can retrace up to 99 percent of wave 1.
  • Wave 4 may not retrace all of wave 3.
• Wave 4 should not go into the price area of wave 2.
  (Sometimes it will pull back to the top of wave 1.)
• Wave 2 and wave 4 must display alternation in
  as many ways as possible.




        www.fx1618.com
2 / Elliott Wave Principles 9




      www.fx1618.com
  10 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




  The structure of an impulse wave is illustrated here.
  • Wave 1, wave 3 and wave 5 are trending.
  • Wave 2 and wave 4 are corrections.
  • Wave 4 does not go into the price area of wave 2.
• Of wave 1, wave 3 and wave 5, wave 3 is not the
  shortest.
  • Wave 2 and wave 4 display alternation.




        www.fx1618.com
                                                        2 / Elliott Wave Principles 11


Counting Waves
When deciding if a wave fits into either an impulse or corrective framework, look
for some basic visual things that will instantly show you the right category.
These are illustrated by the following two diagrams.

                                Correct
                                Count




Incorrect Count
(Wave 3 is too small)




Incorrect Count
(Wave 4 and wave 1 overlap)
Correct Count




     www.fx1618.com
  12 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


  Alternation
  In an impulse move, alternation must occur between wave 2 and wave 4. That is,
  wave 2 and wave 4 must be different in as many ways as possible, or at a minimum
  in at least one way.
  Alternation occurs between wave 2 and wave 4 as either price, time or pattern
  type.
• Price: Wave 2 when compared to wave 4 may be
  obviously smaller/larger in price.
• Time: Wave 2 when compared to wave 4 may take
  much more/less time.      .
• Pattern: Wave 2 may be a simple ABC. Wave 4
  could be a more complex A B C or even a fourth
  wave triangle. Wave 2 could be a flat. Wave 4 could
  be a zigzag or vice versa.
  The following diagrams illustrate various forms of alternation.




                            In this diagram, there is alternation between
                            wave 2 and wave 4 in both price and pattern.
                            Wave 2 retraces more of wave 1 than wave 4




        www.fx1618.com
2 / Elliott Wave Principles 13




In this diagram, wave 2 and wave 4 display alternation in price, pattern and
time.




For a pattern to be impulsive, wave 2 and wave 4 must be noticeably different.




      www.fx1618.com
14 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Wave 2 and wave 4 are too similar and show no alternation. The complete wave
sequence is corrective.

Degree
The waves on a monthly chart are much larger than those found on an intraday
chart comprised of two-hour time frames. If you study a price chart, the degree of
each wave is easily recognized. You can easily see that some waves consume more
time and price than others.
When dealing with small time frames, it is essential to group all the smaller waves
into bigger ones. The waves on a five-minute chart are grouped to make up an hourly
chart. The hourly chart is then grouped to make up a daily chart. The daily is
then grouped to make up a monthly chart and so on. The data on a five-minute chart
is of minor importance when viewed historically as compared to the data on a
monthly chart, thus the five-minute chart is said to be of much smaller degree than
the monthly.
To count waves properly, it is essential to group the waves of the same degree
together. This can be difficult since each wave can expand in time or extend in price
and still be of the same degree. Corrections are notorious for this, and it is easy to
get lost in the count until the correction is over, especially when you are dealing in
small time frames.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                  2 / Elliott Wave Principles 15




The rally from M to N was the same wave degree as the 1987 crash N to O.
The S&P chart on the following page shows that C wave patterns can be found on
waves of the smallest degree possible.




    www.fx1618.com
  16 How To identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Extensions
When you look at a price chart and compare the three impulse waves, you will
notice that one of them is longer than the rest. This longer wave is said to be
extended.
Waves extend because of market psychology. Traders recognize the trend and at
the point it becomes a common perception, the market starts to stretch. Very little
counter-trend action occurs since most players are waiting for reactions to join in or
add to positions.
During an extended wave, incredible amounts of price distance can be covered
with very little in the way of a pullback. The great danger here is that even if you
are




     www.fx1618.com
                                                     2 / Elliott Wave Principles 17


personally sure that the market is trending, you will not know which wave is
extending until well into the move. To prevent premature profit-taking on
position trades, you must be aware of the concept of the extended wave.
The diagram below demonstrates the concept that an impulse sequence
contains one wave that is noticeably longer than the others.




    www.fx1618.com
1
8 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Corrective Waves

Corrective waves are comprised of three waves. Corrections move in the opposite
direction to the main trend. Therefore, the first wave (wave A) will be the reverse of
the trend. The second wave (wave B) will be in the direction of the trend. The last
wave (wave C) will be against the trend. Wave A and wave B may be comprised of five
waves of one smaller degree.

ABC Corrections
ABC corrections are the most common corrective structures with five wave triangles
following. As a trader, you are always looking for wave C to complete, so that you can re-
enter the market in the direction of the main trend.
These diagrams illustrate simple ABC corrections.




     www.fx1618.com
                                                       2 / Elliott Wave Principles 19


The more time the correction takes, the more complex the wave needs to become.




    www.fx1618.com
20 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


C waves can take up a lot of time and also cover a lot of price distance. They
do this by having smaller and smaller subwaves.




     www.fx1618.com
                                                               2 / Elliott Wave Principles 21


  Zigzags
  A zigzag is a corrective wave that divides into a three wave (ABC) sequence. If
  a zigzag subdivides:
  • Wave A is made of 5 waves.
  • Wave B is made of 3 waves.
  • Wave C is made of 5 waves.
      Sometimes a zigzag is simple, as illustrated in the following diagrams. All zigzags
     obey the following essential rules:
•    Wave B may not retrace more than 61.8 percent
  of wave A.
  • Wave C must retrace all of wave B.




        www.fx1618.com
22 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wove Trades in Real Time




     www.fx1618.com
                                                          2 / Elliott Wave Principles 23


  Flats
  The term flat refers to any ABC correction that obeys the following essential
  rules:
• Wave B must retrace more than 61.8 percent of
  wave A.
  • Wave C must be at least 38.2 percent of wave B.
• Wave B can be 61.8 percent to 138.2 percent of
  wave A.




       www.fx1618.com
24 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Elongated Flats
Elongated flats often form complete corrections. Occasionally, they form part of
a larger triangle.
Rule: Wave C must be a minimum length of 138.20 percent when compared to
wave B.
Often wave C will be 161.8 percent to 238.20 percent of wave B.
Wave C will often consume the most amount of time when compared to wave
A and wave B.




     www.fx1618.com
2 / Elliott Wave Principles 25




      www.fx1618.com
                                  26 HOW To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

Triangles
Normal triangles consist of five wave corrections that often occur in the fourth wave and B

wave position. Each of the five waves usually subdivides into three waves. you believe that

you are in a fourth wave triangle expect to see multiple subdivisions into threes and a lot of

time elapse compared to previous waves (often months on daily). The market will make

false trendline break, as it tends to drift sideways. This is a characteristic of B and fourth

wave triangles.




Triangles consist of five corrective waves labeled a b c d e. Once the market has
broken the b d trendline, the tri angle is complete.




      www.fx1618.com
2 / Elliott Wave Principles 27




Each wave of a triangle may or may not subdivide. The five wave structure and
general shape makes it obvious that a triangle has formed.




      www.fx1618.com
28 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wove Trades in Real Time


Diagonal Triangles
Diagonal triangles consist of five waves and can occur at the end of any
movement that needs five waves tc complete (e.g., a wave C or a wave 5 of a
fifth wave oi one larger degree). When you see a diagonal triangle as the last
wave of a wave 5, expect a major move to follow.
One of the most important patterns, diagonal triangles are discussed in greater
detail in Chapter 5. Diagonal triangles can be found on charts of all degree. The
psychology behind the pattern is this: People are still trying to buy at the top but
are meeting with selling resistance; and when the diagonal triangle is forming
at a bottom, people are still trying to sell but are meeting with buying support.
The result is an overlapping oi wave b, wave c, wave d and wave e.
Sometimes when you look at the wave, you will see that some waves are simple.
For instance, wave B might be very simple whereas wave C could subdivide into
five waves. The most unlikely place for a multiple subdivision of waves is wave D.
The key to the diagonal five wave triangle is having a clear B D trendline. If the
trendline is not obvious, more work needs to be done within the triangle.




     www.fx1618.com
                 2 / Elliott Wave Principles 29




www.fx1618.com
30 How To identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Five wave (diagonal) triangles can complete any move that needs five waves to
complete, such as wave C or a fifth wave of any degree.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                           2 / Elliott Wave Principles 31


Running Corrections
A running correction corrects in the direction of the trend. This is possibly the
most difficult of all the wave concepts to grasp. Attention to detail is essential in
recognizing a running correction.
If the market does not follow the rules of an impulse wave, it is corrective. It
does not matter if the wave is going in the direction of the trend. A running
correction indicates a very strong market. In the following illustration, wave a,
wave b and wave c are part of the same correction. Strong B waves are covered
in detail in Chapter 5.




C Wave Failures
When wave C fails to retrace all of wave B, the complete ABC pattern will be
classified as a C wave failure. The power implications of this pattern are depen-
dent on the degree of the wave that is being dealt with. On daily charts, the
move to follow will be strong.
C wave failures occur frequently on intraday charts but the follow-through is
negligible.




     www.fx1618.com
  Fifth Wave Failures
  On daily charts, fifth wave failures are relatively rare. However, this does not
  hold true on intraday charts. The move that follows a fifth wave failure is always
  powerful. The setup is easy to analyze because the market will show normal
  impulsive behavior. That is:
  • wave 3 is not the shortest price pattern,
• there is good alternation between wave 2 and
  wave 4, and
• in the fifth wave, the subdivisions will appear to
  show real weakness of trend.




       www.fx1618.com
                                                           2 / Elliott Wave Principles 33


At this point, be prepared to enter with an order in the market. In every fifth wave
failure that I have traded, I doubt if I would have gotten a reasonable fill if I had
waited to phone in my order as soon as I saw the break. A fifth wave failure is the
strongest signal that the trend has changed. Of course, the degree of wave that you
are dealing with determines whether it is the start of a fundamental trend change
or the beginning of a correction.




Wave 5 failed to make a new high. A fifth wave failure should be followed by a
strong move in the opposite direction.




Wave 5 failed to make a new low. The upward move to follow should be strong.




     www.fx1618.com
                                     Chapter


                                          3


         Guidelines for Counting
                 Waves



  I n Chapter 1, you looked at the basic concept of putting price flows into waves.
    When looking at price charts, you need a methodology to break the market
  movements into patterns of waves for later analysis. Start with big waves, then
  break these down into even smaller waves. Keep doing this until you have gone
  as far as you can with the type of charts that you are using (daily or different
  intraday periods). You will find the following guidelines helpful to the process of
  counting waves.
• Mark price extremes. This will be a group of waves.
• Break the groups of waves into even smaller
  groups, and apply impulse and correction rules
  to the smaller wave groups.
  • Group similar adjacent waves.



                                                                                  35




       www.fx1618.com
  36 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


• When the time frame that you are using becomes overcrowded, smooth the data by
  moving to the next highest time frame (e.g., 30 minutes to hourlies to two-
  hourlies to dailies to weeklies to monthlies).
• When the wave count becomes difficult, check a related market. This will often
  provide a clearer picture.
• Use a transparent overlay to trace over your charts. This way you can try
  different wave counts without spoiling your charts.
• When prices are congested in one area, look for an A B C pattern.
• At double bottoms, look for a C wave to follow the second low.
• When two areas of price congestion are linked by a simpler wave, the second
  congestion area is usually a C wave.
• Every price movement, no matter how small, is part of a wave and must be
  accounted for and identified in a logical way. To accommodate space restrictions and
  to leave charts uncluttered, you do not need to actually label every subwave. But no
  wave can be overlooked.




        www.fx1618.com
                                                                          3 / Guidelines far Counting Waves 37




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinoia 60606




       www.fx1618.com
38 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
                 3 / Guidelines for Counting Waves 39




www.fx1618.com
40 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Commodity Trend Service




       www.fx1618.com
                 3 / Guidelines for Counting Waves 41




www.fx1618.com
42 How To identify High-Profit Elliott wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Commodity Trend Service




       www.fx1618.com
                 3 / Guidelines for Counting Waves 43




www.fx1618.com
44 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Commodity Trend Service




       www.fx1618.com
                 3 / Guidelines for Counting Waves 45




www.fx1618.com
46 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Commodity Trend Service




       www.fx1618.com
Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Commodity Trend   3 / Guidelines for Counting Waves 47
Service




       www.fx1618.com
48   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Counting Waves




The overlapping on charts of any time frame is a wave.




The overlapping on daily charts are small intraday corrections.




Use the previous day's close and today's high/low to determine wave flows.




      www.fx1618.com
Using close prices with the highs/lows gives a good indication of market action during
each time period.




Even though wave B is only one bar, when compared to surrounding price bars, it is
significantly larger. Therefore, it is classified as a complete wave of one higher degree
(i.e., B is the same price degree as all of A).




     www.fx1618.com
50   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

Grouping Similar Waves
The following waves look normal (of the same degree because they are
similar in either/or price and time Waves must look like this to be considered
part of the same group for counting purposes




                                                                    Similar in Time




     www.fx1618.com
                                                     Similar in Price




Smaller wave groups make up each leg of the a b c.




    www.fx1618.com
                                                           3 / Guidelines for Counting Waves 51


Detecting Elliott Wave Patterns and C Wave Patterns
The      only     charts      suitable     for      detecting       Elliott    Wave        pat
terns    and     C     wave      patterns     are     bar     charts     with     the    high/
low    and     close.    A     line     chart     that    only     displays      one     price
per    time     period    does       not    have       enough      sensitivity     to    show
all   the     waves      but      can     be     useful     for     making       an     initial
assessment.       A     point      and      figure      chart     does       not      account
for time at all and for this reason cannot be used in any
circumstances.                                                  '
A bar chart can be displayed in time frames from one minute up to one year. Every
market will have an optimum time frame that will best display the C wave patterns.
Discovering the best time frame is a matter of researching individual markets.
Examples of various time frames are illustrated in Chapter 9. When trading, it is
important to note that if you are taking trades on charts based on very small time
frames, your profit will normally be much smaller than targets based on analysis from
daily charts.


Terms

To help define patterns of waves, I find certain terms useful. Following is a list of
terms with an explanation of their exact meaning.




     www.fx1618.com
52 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Overlapping
When a wave returns into the price range of one (or more) previous waves,
overlapping occurs.




                                              Overlapping price retraces
Wave 4 retraces past the end                  past the end of another
of wave 1.                                    complete wave.




Converging
Converging occurs when the wave group is comprised of shorter and smaller
moves and can be contained by two trendlines that meet at a point. This pattern
is found at the end of a larger wave group (i.e., wave e of a triangle, thus making
a smaller triangle at the end of a triangle).




     www.fx1618.com
                                                   3 / Guidelines for Counting Waves 53


Subdivide
Market prices stretch by having complete but smaller, or subdivided, wave
groups within a wave.




No waves subdivided                      Wave 3 subdivided




Symbols of Wave Degree

There are so many waves within waves that symbols must be used to denote
which wave you are referring to. The focus of this book is the practical application
of Elliott Wave Principles on a day-to-day basis. Thus, I have concentrated on a
basic, simple explanation of the wave theory. On the charts, group the same-size
letters or numbers with each other. A large A B C is of a higher degree than A B C,
which is one level higher than a b c. Parentheses are used for the next degree
down [e.g., (a) (b)(c)].
When dealing with C waves, the letters a, b, c, d, e are used interchangeably
with the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Therefore, a = 1, b = 2, c = 3, d = 4, e = 5. Thus, a
break above wave 4 also means a break above wave d.




     www.fx1618.com
                                  Chapter


                                      4


                    Logic of Counting
                       Waves



T he following group of charts will demonstrate a number of points pertaining to
  wave count logic. At any time when counting waves, a decision must be made
as to whether a particular count is the best one possible. The points illustrated
on the following charts are not iron-clad rules, but they will help you to decide
which is the best possible count at the time.




                                                                               55




     www.fx1618.com
56    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                                  4 / Logic of Counting Waves 57




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810. Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
58 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
4 / Logic of Counting Waves 59




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago,
Illinois 60606




      www.fx1618.com
60 How To identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago,
Illinois 60606




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                                   4 / Logic of Counting Waves 61




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
62 How To identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago,
Illinois 60606




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                                4 / Logic of Counting Waves 63




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
64   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




                                                           Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-
Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                                 4 / Logic of Counting Waves 65




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
66 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Kmght-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                                4 / Logic of Counting Waves 67




Reprinted with peraussion. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
6
* How To Identify High-Proftt Elliott Wave Trades In Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                                 4 / Logic of Counting Waves 69




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 KnightRidder Financial. 30 South Wacker Dnve. Suite 1810. Chicago. Illinois 60506




       www.fx1618.com
70 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 606<k




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                                   4 / Logic of Counting Waves 71




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
72 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                                4 / Logic of Counting Waves 73




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
74 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time,




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                                  4 / Logic of Counting Waves 75




Reprinted with permission, © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
76 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago,
Illinois 60606




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                                  4 / Logic of Counting Waves 77




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial. 30 South Wacker Drive. Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
78   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Knight-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810. Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                                   4 / Logic of Counting Waves 79




Reprinted with permission. © 1995 Kjught-Ridder Financial, 30 South Wacker Drive, Suite 1810, Chicago, Illinois 60606




       www.fx1618.com
                                     Chapter


                                          5


                C Wave Patterns



U
   sing some of the basic Elliott Wave elements discussed in previous
   chapters, you can now apply them as a method of pattern recognition. The
   patterns, all some end form of A B C correction, are called C wave
patterns.
Your goal is to stay out of the market until the pattern is just about to end. Your
profit objective will always depend on whether the market is impulsive or correc-
tive. If the market is impulsive, you will stay with the trade until the impulse
wave that you have just joined is about to end. If the market is corrective, you
will stay with the trade through the subsequent A B C. It is important to follow as
many markets as you can because you only want to trade the most well-defined
patterns. If the ideal pattern does not form, do not take the trade— save your
capital for a better situation.
Note that all the following pattern rules deal with wave C only. It does not make a
difference if the overall correction is a zigzag or a flat, or if the market is trending
up or down.




     www.fx1618.com                      81
  82   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades In Real Time


   The ideal trading strategy is to trade two contracts using the C wave patterns:
1. as a pattern recognition method to signal short-
   term trades with a fixed profit target, and
2. as a longer term trading approach pyramiding
   positions using further patterns as they develop
   and reversing positions only when a new trade is
   signaled by a new pattern.


  Method Objective for Impulsive and Corrective
  Markets

  The goal of the C wave method is to enter the market as soon as wave C
  completes.




        www.fx1618.com
                                                        5/C Wave Patterns 83




Trade Strategy

Your goal is to identify pattern type and to find the end of wave C. If the overall
market is corrective, look to find the end of wave C, then enter the market. Wait until
completion of the next ABC before taking profits.




If the market is impulsive, trend trade and use the end of correction 2 and correction 4
to add to your position. Wave 2 and wave 4 will end with some kind of C wave pattern.




     www.fx1618.com
84 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades In Real Time


C Wave Patterns and Trading Rules

All C wave patterns consist of five waves with the exception of pattern 5. In all
the C wave examples that follow, the use of small letters a, b, c, d, e are inter-
changeable with the use of the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. This holds true only for C
waves.

Pattern 1
A pattern 1 can be recognized by the fact that wave 1 and wave 4 show no
overlapping. Wave 2 and wave 4 may or may not show pattern alternation; they
may be the same in time and in price or may look impulsive. A pattern 1 may
follow all the rules of an impulse wave. However, what clearly defines the C wave
pattern 1 from an impulse is that the larger wave A and wave B (of which wave
C is the impulse) can be easily seen. The entry to a pattern 1 is a break of wave
D. The stop then goes above/below the price high/low of wave E.
In the illustration below, pattern 1 looks impulsive; however, wave b and wave d
• will be the same in time and/or price,
• have simple price pullback, and
• show no pattern alternation.
This could be a wave A of pattern 3. To prevent misinterpretation, do not enter
the trade until the market breaks below/above wave d or subsequent price
action shows that pattern 3 is not possible.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                               5/C Wave Patterns 85


  Pattern 2
  In a C wave pattern 2, wave b and wave d overlap. Wave b and wave d may show
  pattern and time alternation. Wave e
• will be brief timewise, or may be a small five wave
  triangle,
• could, but might not, exceed the high/low of wave
  (c) of c.
  The price move that follows will probably be quite slow. However, this will be the
  end of wave C, so a certain amount of patience is needed.




       www.fx1618.com
86 How To Identity High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades In Real Time


Pattern 3
A pattern 3, which is a five wave triangle, is a highly reliable end pattern and occurs
frequently. Wave a is by far the longest price wave. Wave a may consist of three waves
or five waves.
Wave b, wave c, wave d and wave e
• will have similar price range,
• will possibly skew, and
• will show similar subdivisions.
Wave e will be very brief timewise 'unless wave e is in itself a smaller five wave
triangle. The entry to a pattern 3 is a break of wave d.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                            5/C Wave Patterns 87


Pattern 4
In pattern 4, wave C consists of five clear waves. Waves a and b will both
subdivide into three smaller waves. Wave C will be one wave. Wave d will
subdivide into three smaller waves. Wave e will be one wave.




Pattern 5
A pattern 5 is the only C wave pattern that consists of only three waves a, b, c.
Entry is a break below/above wave b. Stop occurs above/below wave c.




     www.fx1618.com
88 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time



Strong B Waves and Trading Rules
Pattern 6, an A B C running correction, is a very common correction. At first glance,
it is hard to see the AB C pattern because of the length of wave B. Wave C is
always a triangle, wave C can pull back into the price area of wave A, but most of
the trading will be done above/below this. Traditionally, this pattern is known as a
double three, and the B wave is labeled as X.
This long B wave concept can be used as a springboard to the other patterns that
until now have not been classified. When a running correction is found in a trending
market, the move after wave C completes is always strong. This does not hold
true in a corrective market where this pattern often gives a false appearance of price
strength. If you are trading in a market that appears to be strong but does not obey all
the impulse market rules, check for the ABC running correction or its variation
patterns 7, 8 and 9. Entry for patterns 6, 7, 8 and 9 is a break of wave d.
Patterns 6, 7, 8 and 9 all have strong B waves that end well above the beginning of
wave A.




     www.fx1618.com
                                                          5 / C Wave Patterns 89


The more likely B wave is one brisk movement with no subdivisions or an
obvious three wave a b c.




    www.fx1618.com
90 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Pattern 6
                                  A strong B wave, pattern 6 is an A B C running correction.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                             5/C Wave Patterns 91


Pattern 7
In a pattern 7, a strong B wave, wave C consists of five waves and must retrace at
least 50 percent (or more) of wave B. Wave C could pull back into the price area of
wave A but does not have to if wave B is very long.




     www.fx1618.com
92 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Pattern 8
In a pattern 8, a strong B wave, wave C may or may not come back into the price
range of wave A. Wave C must be a pattern 3 (five overlapping waves). Wave a (of C)
is the largest in the final a b c d e pattern.




Wave a is the largest in this final a b c d e pattern.




      www.fx1618.com
Example of Trading Trick #2




      www.fx1618.com
Example of Trading Trick #2 (4 is a Gift)




       www.fx1618.com
94 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

Five Wave Corrections and Trading Rules
Two more corrective patterns that 1 have discovered are not strictly C
waves but are corrective nonetheless I think of these patterns as
fitting into the same category as B wave triangles inasmuch as the
market action af-ter they finish can he predicted These two patterns—
10 and 11— are complete corrections in themselves, and the price
move that follows will retrace mo9t if not all the pattern

Pattern 10
Pattern 10 is a zigzag pattern (wave B retraces 61.8 percent or less of wave A)
However, note that not all zigzags are a pattern 10




               Unfortunately, wave C gives a false pattern signal
               and then goes on to make a new high.




     www.fx1618.com
                                                                                                         5 / C Wave Patterns   95



A new high must end in a five wave triangle




Entry: A break of wave d

Pattern 10 can easily be mistaken for an impulse, but the wave 4 (in the first diagram) will always he smaller in price and time
than wave 2. Also wave 4 will be a simple A B C, never anything more complex. Entry is a break of wave D.




    Incorrect Count




                                 Wave 4 Is smaller In both price and
                                 time when compared to wave 2.




         www.fx1618.com
94    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time Correct Count




     Pattern 11
     A false impulse similar to pattern 10, pattern 11 could at first be mistaken as an impulse. The deciding factor is that the combined time of
     wave 3, wave 4 and wave 5 (when measured from the end of wave 2) is equal to less than wave 1 or wave 2 combined. Some of the subwaves
     on close inspection may be 3s not (impulsive) 5s. A pattern 11 could be completely retraced or may be wave A of a larger A B C. Entry is a
     break of 2 - 4 trendline stop above/below wave 5.




             www.fx1618.com
5/C Wave Patterns 97




                        Some of the subwaves on close Inspection will be 3s not 5s.




                        Time of waves




       www.fx1618.com
98   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

List of C Wave Patterns


For easy reference a complete list of the C wave patterns below



Pattern 1   No overlapping of wave 1 and vvave 4




Pattern 2 Wave b and wave d overlap




                          Pattern 2




      www.fx1618.com
                                          5 / C Wave Patterns   99

Pattern 3   Five wave triangle




Patlern 4   Many smaller a b c patterns




Pattern S C wave is only three waves




      www.fx1618.com
  102    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

Pattern 11 Total time of wave 1 and wave 2 Is greater than or equal to the combined times ol wave 3, wave
  4 and wave 5




         www.fx1618.com
                                                Chapter


                                                    6


                     How To Find C Wave Patterns


  Ccharts.
   wave patterns are found at the end of areas of price congestion on intraday and daily
           Check these areas for waves A and B, then start matching against the rules for C wave
   patterns described in Chapter 5.
  Or when the market has been moving strongly up or down, look for the first price pullback and mark
  as a possible wave A. If the next wave in the direction of the trend is corrective (three waves or five
  waves showing no impulse rules), mark as wave B. Now check the daily wave flows (see Chapter 3),
  and check for a match against the C wave pattern rules. Place entry stops in the market as
  indicated by the pattern rules.
  To help your .search for C wave patterns, try the following techniques:
• Use a transparent overlay to trace possible wave
  flows without marking your charts.
• Make a larger copy of the daily chart to make it
  easier to see every wave.




        www.fx1618.com                                                                                103
100    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

Pattern 6 Strong B wave ending in five waves




Pattern 7 Strong B wave that is retraced 50 percent or more by wave C




Pattern 8 Strong B wave ending in a five wave triangle




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                        5/C Wave Patterns 101




Pattern 8




 Pattern 9 Wave a, wave b, wave c and wave d overlap, but wave e makes a strong break in
the direction of wave A




   Pattern 10 Wave 2 is a zigzag, wave 4 is smaller than wave 2 In price and time and wave 5 Is a
triangle




      www.fx1618.com
106   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                 6 / How To Find C Wave Patterns   107




www.fx1618.com
108   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




       www.fx1618.com
                 6/ How to find C Wave Patterns   109




www.fx1618.com
110   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                                                  Chapter

                                                       7


                                          Profit Takes




Onesomething
     of the most difficult concepts of trading is profit lakes. 1 am a strong believer in trying to make
             out of every trade because in the past a lot of money has slipped away through trying to
 trend trade what in hindsight turned out to be a choppy market.
With the guidance of Elliott's wave principles, you will find it easier to rend the market. Often you will be able
to predict what is going to happen before the crowd does. This means that you will be early, often by months.
Predicting time is extremely difficult. The problem is: You can see where the next major move is headed, so
you hold onto every C wave pattern for the big trend trade only to find that on a larger degree every wave
series will stretch timewise to the very end. The net result is: You have made a lot of profitable trades that
have turned to break-even or even losses after you consider the impact of brokerage and have wasted
several months of your time.




                                                                                                             111

       www.fx1618.com
112   How to Identity High Profit Elliott Wave trades in Real Time

The solution is to trader some contracts for quick profits while continuing to hold others for the trend trade.
Trend trading is dependent on wave degree, exit and reverse only when the big patterns emerge. After a
true trend has begun, you can add more long-term positions using the C wave patterns.
I use margin requirements as a profit take measure The exchange margin is usually lower than your bro-
kerage house requires, but I like to use the higher figure since it is a true measure of return. Margin
increases with volatility and thus to some extent remains in step with the market. When ranges are tight,
margins are small and a fixed profit based on margin is going to give a realistic return.
Illustrated on the chart that follows, the profit takes are all based on a percentage of margin that varies from
market to market. The percentage return on the S&P is only 50 percent because the margin is always fairly
high when compared to the average price range. On the currencies, 1 use 100 percent return. Intraday profit
takes must naturally be smaller because the wave degree that you arc trading is only minor.




      www.fx1618.com
                 7/ Profit Takes   113




www.fx1618.com
                                                 Chapter

                                                     8

            Alternate Counts and Recounts



ICntoowave
       the markets, your analysis will often be wrong—this is simply a fact of life. However, unless you have
         rigid a view of where the market is going, this should not hinder your ability to make money. With the
             patterns, you must be prepared to trade the patterns as you find them.
A good strategy, if possible, is to always trade two contracts, even if that means trading minicontracts.
You can take quick profits on one position and let the other one ride until you find another clear pattern.
Now that you have discovered C wave patterns, you will see them in all markets C wove patterns occur
frequently on intraday charts You can wait and conserve your capital for the bust trades.
Instead of looking at only one or two markets, investigate a variety of markets. Alternate counts are
necessary because the Elliott Wave is flexible by nature and




                                                                                                           115

      www.fx1618.com
116   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

when a perfect pattern sets up, then fails and changes into something else, it is because fundamental
information has entered the market. Alternate counts will not change the nature of the move—if you are
in an impulsive market, the market will remain impulsive. And if you are in a corrective market, unless it
is the very end of the correction, you still stay in a corrective market
These factors make it difficult for long-term counting This is why you will find Elliott Wave analysts saying
different things Until a final wave is over, there is always the possibility of an extension (for instance, wave
C corrections sometimes can go on for many months, even years). In the currencies and the grains, large
price moves have been made during the last five or six years, but all the moves were of a corrective nature
rather than impulsive. These corrective waves last a very long time, and there are a lot of small C wave
patterns within the longer corrections. This allows you ample opportunity to make a profit; you do not
need a long-term view. (See the December Deutschemark Charts in Chapter 4).
Recounts are required when waves subdivide. The objective is to get the best possible count. Alternate counts
will often yield the same buy/sell signals, in which case final labeling choice is a matter of personal
preference as long as all the pattern and wave count rules are satisfied.




      www.fx1618.com
                 8 / Alternate Counts and Recounts   117




www.fx1618.com
118   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                 8 / Alternate Counts and Recounts   119




www.fx1618.com
120   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                 8 / Alternate Counts and Recounts   121




www.fx1618.com
122   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




       www.fx1618.com
                 8 / Alternate Counts and Recounts   123




www.fx1618.com
124   Ho w To Identif y High-Prof it Elliott W a ve Tra des in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                 8 / Alternate Counts and Recounts   125




www.fx1618.com
  126     How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time



  Trading Large C Waves
  At this stage you should understand the phenomenum of large C waves that take the market to new
  highs or lows (see the diagrams on the next page). This is why you should not                             always rush to trade
  opposite the direction of the C wave. Long waves extend just like impulse waves.
  ? you same insight into what I am thinking about. Scince      1987 crush, all the stock market advance has
  been technically corrective in nature. Obviously, there have been more chances to trade on the side of the C wave directionthan
  against it as the market makes new highs. Long term, this indicates a certain structural weakness. When
  the market eventually turns around, the selloff will be severe. But here you are dealing with a w a v e
  degree that is measured in years; realistically, there have been many opportunities to buy the market with
  smaller C wave patterns. Although this is an ext r e m e example, it happens all the time on a smaller
  smaller and underscores two points:
1. Do not get locked into a view of market direction through your long-term analysis.
2. Trade all the C wave patterns as long as all the rules are met.




          www.fx1618.com
                 8 / Alternate Counts and Recounts 127




www.fx1618.com
                                               Chapter

                                                   9


                  C Wave Patterns on Daily and Intraday
                             Charts



The following charts are presented for your future reference. The C wave patterns are once again shown in
 real markets to help you with pattern matching. The profit takes are all fixed targets based on a
 percentage of margin. These are only guidelines, but they will help you assess this concept's value for
yourself.




       www.fx1618.com
130    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

N.Y. Silver

The following chart of N.Y. Silver over a six-month period shows a long series of
a b c corrections. Sometimes the patterns are difficult to decipher — this is when
you must stay out of the market. At other times, there are some clear patterns that
provide a good easy trade. But when you are in a market with multiple a b c
corrections, profit takes must remain relatively small
The first wave marked is a B wave triangle a b c d e, which then goes into wave
C. The wave C ends with a pattern 3. The market then declines and makes a
double bottom (quite often double bottoms are the start of wave A and the end of
wave B). Naturally after this, there will be another C wave. This C wave ended
with a pattern 2. Wave 1 and wave 4 overlap.




      www.fx1618.com
                 9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   131




www.fx1618.com
I 32   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott W ave Trades in Real Time




           www.fx1618.com
                                                                                9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   133



Deutschemark Spot
The Deutschemark spot chart was used previously (see Chapter 2) to demonstrate a fifth wave triangle.
This was the high on the dollar in 1985. Before the filth wave triangle , I have marked another A B C. This
is a good example of 7, which is a strong B wave with wave a, wave b, wave c, wave d and wave e
pulling back into price area of wave A. The high on the dollar is marked as         a strong ABCDE fifth wave
triangle.
wave pattern.
             Then after that, the first a b c, which is a smaller rally on the dollar after it started declining, there was a C

The pattern was a pattern 5, which was just three waves. Looking further, it turns out that the next move down was
only three waves after this, meaning that the decline must he a strong B wave. This was followed by an a
b c d e, making this a good example of a pattern 6.




       www.fx1618.com
134   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Deutschemark—Spot—4 Month




          www.fx1618.com
9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   135




      www.fx1618.com
136    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                 9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   137




www.fx1618.com
138   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                 9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   139




www.fx1618.com
140    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                 9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   131




www.fx1618.com
142 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




    www.fx1618.com
                                                    9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   131




                        Five wave triangle
                        Pattern 3




Five wave triangle ending with a smaller triangle




        www.fx1618.com
144 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time
S&P 500 60 Minutes
Five wave triangle



                     Five wave triangle




        www.fx1618.com
                                          9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   145


Copper 120 Minutes




                     B or fourth wave triangle

                     Wave e sometimes breaks
                     the a c trendllne. Entry Is a
                     break of the b d trendline or
                     a stop above/below wave d.




    www.fx1618.com
146 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Deutschemark Hourly




                                                Pattern 2
                          Pattern 3

                                This hourly Deutschemark chart shows
                                smaller C wave patterns within a triangle.




      www.fx1618.com
9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   147
Sugar (CSCE)




     www.fx1618.com
148 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                     9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   149

S&P 500 1 Minute




    www.fx1618.com
150 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Copper 10 Minutes




     www.fx1618.com
                     9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   151
Copper 10 Minutes




    www.fx1618.com
152    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Copper 10 Minutes




      www.fx1618.com
                     9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   153


Copper 10 Minutes




    www.fx1618.com
154     How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Copper 10 Minutes




      www.fx1618.com
            9/ C Wave Patterns on Daily and Inlraday Charts   155




www.fx1618.com
156     How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




      www.fx1618.com
                                                    Chapter

                                                       1O


                            C Wave Method in Action



  Youpatterns
        now know what the C wave patterns look like and how they develop in real time. You can use these
              in their simplest forms to get short-term trades by matching your price charts with the patterns
   that I have laid out for you. The full listing of patterns is provided in Chapter 5 for future reference.
   Another way to use C wave patterns is to try trend trading in an effort to stay in the trade as long as you can.
   In this chapter, I will take you through some market action day by day to help you see how this can be
   done.
1. Draw a line through the midpoint of each day's range to get the general market shape.
   2. Mark in a rough count of either (3s) or (5s).




                                                                                                                157



         www.fx1618.com
   158     How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time

3. Keep renumbering until you have a logical wave count.


 4. Simplify your count by marking the end of every group of waves (5s) or (3s) with a dot and the num-ber of
   w a v e s in each group.

 5. Always mark the first (3) group as a wave A.

6. The next wave group of the same degree is wave B. This may be made up
  of a smaller a b с d one degree smaller.

7. Any time you have three or more waves on the                           MIDPOINT CHART , TRY DOING
   DETAILED COUNTS ON THE DAILY CHARTS AS WELL


8. Keep using both the midpoint and daily charts until you are absolutely sure
  that wave B has finished.

9. When wave B is complete, the midpoint chart will not be sensetive enough to get an accurate C wave count. Use
   the daily chart until wave C ends.

10. When your wave count is unclear, check a related market.

11. Place market entry stops only when you have a clear C wave pattern. (See C wave diagrams and
    rules in Chapter 5 )

12. Once you are in the trade, use the daily charts for stops and a combination of daily and midpoint charts for
   analysis. Repeat steps 1 to 11.




         www.fx1618.com
                                                                       10/ Wave Method in Action 159


Entry
The method of entry is the same for every pattern. An entry stop is placed one tick above/below the price
bar of wave d or 4. When this stop is activated, a stop loss is placed one tick above/below wave e or 5
Stops are covered in more detail ( see Managing the
Trade, later in this chapter)




      www.fx1618.com
160      How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




The above chart shows 24 days of data on the OEX (S&P) 100). To begin the wave count, draw a line through the
midpoint of each day's range to got the general market shape shown below




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                        10/ C Wave Method in Action       161




Example 1




Mark in a rough count of either/or 3s and 5s




                           Example 2
                           Keep renumbering until you have a logical wave count. Example 2 appears to be the
                           best fit at this point.




Simplify your count. Mark the end of every group of 5s or 3s with a dot and the number of waves in each
group.




       www.fx1618.com
162     How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




You can say that your first group may be an impulse 5s, but you don't know if it is wave 1, wave 3 or
                                                                                              wave 5




The next group (3) is definitely a correction against the short-term trend (3s are always correction). Therefore,
always make your first (3) group after a (5) group as A.




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                         10/ Wave Method in Action              163




Because you now have a wave A, the next group of 3 or 5 must be wave B. Or if wave И subdivides, the next three groups
will be (a) (b) (c). This se tup is the most common. lt does not affect you either way because your
primary interest is wave C.




Mark the next Group of 3s as wave B.
Now that you have possible wave A and wave B, you must now look for a C wave pattern. You are at the
stage where the midpoint method is not sensitive enough to detect the final five waves that should make
up wave C. You now look for five waves on a daily chart by marking in every wave flow (see Counting Waves
in Chapter 3).




       www.fx1618.com
164   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Using the close prices and daily range, you can get a good idea of the wave flow.




Five waves can be counted, but wave 3 does not exceed wave 1. This pattern does not fit into any of our C
wave patterns, and the market may expand into the situation as presented in example 2.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                         10 / C Wave Method in Action      165




When the wave count is unclear, check a related market. In this case, the S&P 500 shows a clear five wave
pattern. Wave 2 and wave 4 do not overlap. Refering to the pattern diagrams and rules, you will find that the C
wave on the S&P 500 conforms to the rules of pattern 1.




Because you are trading the S&P 100, refer back to the OEX chart and place your entry stop a tick above
wave 4 and a stop loss below wave 5.




      www.fx1618.com
166   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time


Managing the Trade
At th e beginning of the trade, you cannot do anything until at least three waves have unfolded. Do not
use the midpoint method alone to count waves since this method is not sensitive enough. Consider any
movement as 3 wave. When you can count three waves of any degree, your stop can be moved, as in
case 1 and case 2

Case 1
Wave 3 is least 300 percent in price length when com-pared to wave 2 (e.g. if wave 2 is 100 points,
wave 3 must be 300 points or more). The stop can now be moved up to below wave 2.




                   Case 1: Stop moves to below wave 2.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                         10 /C Wave Method in Action     167

Case 2




Case 2 (a): If five waves are detected as wave 3, check for an impulse wave. If impulse wave is found,
stop is moved to below wave 2.




Case 2 (b): Check wave 1 for correction. If wave 1 is corrective, wave 3 will possibly be C wave pattern. If a
C wave pattern is confirmed, the stop and reverse is placed below wave 4 of the C wave as usual.




      www.fx1618.com
    168   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Case 3




 If there is no C wave pattern and wave 3 is less than 300 percent of wave 2, the stop stays in
 its original place underneath the extreme low.




                In a situation as described in case 3, wave 3
may turn into wave B




            If you are still in the trade, stop points can only be
           altered when five waves can be counted.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                           10/C Wave Method in Action       169




                                When five waves can be counted, the stop goes
                                under wave 4




If you get stopped out, check the wave group(s) of wave 5. If they are 3s and not 5s, wave 5 should be
renamed wave B.




If this is the case, look for a C wave pattern. Do not attempt to stay in the trade. This C wave may retrace all the
previous price moves and more.




       www.fx1618.com
170     How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Five waves can now be counted. The stop is moved from below wave 2 and is now placed below wave 4.




      www.fx1618.com
                          10/C Wave Method in Action        171




                   Because the assumed wave B is so strong
                   compared to wave A, this is looking like
                  pattern 6, 7 or 8 (sec pattern rules in Chapter
                  5) The stop to enter the market goes above
                  wave d with a stop loss below wave e. You
                 still maintain your original position with the stop
                 loss below wave 4




www.fx1618.com
172      How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




The stop to enter the market above wave d has not been hit, and the market has continued to correct
(sideways markets are corrective). This calls for a recount. Wave A is still straight forward, but wave B may
be incorrect.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                     10/C Wave Method in Action    173




Strictly using the entry rules, you were stopped into the market a tick above wave d. That same day your
stop loss was hit a tick below wave e. Wave B is still obviously strong compared to wave A so any C wave
must be a pattern 6, 7 or 8. A new buy stop was placed above the high of the day.




      www.fx1618.com
174   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




You have been successfully stopped into a pattern 7 trade




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                         10/C Wave Method in Action     175




The stops on trade 2 have been progressively raised from below entry to under wave 2 and then raised
again to under wave 4. The stop under wave 4 was then hit, leaving just your original open position. Marked
on the chart are complete wave groups that make up the larger waves 1,2, 3 and 4.
The slop rules are used on the large wave groups in the same manner us the smaller groups. You are
always trying to cut your risk, and you achieve this by moving stops up on new positions using smaller
degree waves.




      www.fx1618.com
176    How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Wave A and wave B have finished. Now look for the C wave pattern.




      www.fx1618.com
                 10/C Wave Method in Action     177




                    Notice that the wave marked И is
                    5 waves, this previously labled
                   wave 5. In fact, it was wave B of
                   pattern 6 A B C running
                   correction.




www.fx1618.com
178   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Your stop profit stays below wave C of wave 4.
Profit takes and reversals can only be made if wave 5 becomes pattern 3, or a clear five waves.




The last day of trading has broken the pattern 3 range. Wave A is a correction.
Rule: First (3) is wave A.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                          10/C Wave Method In Action 179

This alone suggests that the downmove is not a change of trend. But on the other hand, you do not know how
far the C wave will carry you. It would be quite possible to retrace the complete upmove. Now that you have wave
A and wave B, you are looking for a C wave pattern.




Wave C now has a five wave pattern 2. The entry stop goes above wave 4.




      www.fx1618.com
180 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Your stop profit was hit, and you wait on the sidelines. Wave C has become too complex on the OEX, so you
use the cash S&P to help with the count.
(For clarity, this S&P 500 chart was constructed from a daily chart using high/low and close prices to get the
correct wave flow. It is not a midpoint chart )
Rule: Check related markets to clarify the count.




S&P 500




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                       10/C Wave Method in Action       181




Wave C obeys the rules of pattern 1. Now refer back to the OEX chart, and place a stop above wave 4 to enter
a new position with a stop loss beneath wave 5.
Now let's take a look at a second example of market action playing out day by day.




      www.fx1618.com
182   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Eight days of May wheat are illustrated above. Since you have a wave group of at least three waves
on the midpoint (more in this case), you can try a detailed daily wave flow.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                      10/C Wave Method in Action   183




The daily wave count is clear enough to use. Wave 1 is a (3), therefore, it is marked wave A.




The next part is fuzzy until wave 4 overlaps wave 1 and on day 7 the market closed down. Wave 4 is wave
(c) of B. You are now looking for a C wave pattern.




      www.fx1618.com
184     How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




Wave C is a pattern 1. Our entry stop above wave 4 was hit, and you are now long with a stop under wave
5. The market then went sideways. Your stop below wave 5 was not h i t . Above is a wave flow that shows
the real wave count. This does not alter your long position in any way.




There is a clear double bottom that now can be labeled wave A and waveB. Wave 5 of wave C is very
long when compared to both wave A and wave B and also when compared to wave 1 and wave 3 of
wave C. Wave C is elongated. Your stop and reverse goes under wave 4.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                                        10/C Wave Method in Action             165




Your stop has not boon hit, and you have not found any C wave patterns to add on with. The wave count is murky, so you are now using
both the midwave and daily charts for your wave counts.




Stop losses should now be raised.




        www.fx1618.com
186 How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time




The midpoint provides the clearest look at the market. Wave B has ended, and you are looking for a
clear C wave pattern on the daily chart. Now you will experiment and see if you can get a good fiton
your wave count.




        www.fx1618.com
                                                                       10/C Wave Method in Action     187




In all honesty, the last wave (S) is subdividing so much that it is hard to get a good count. Unless this
ends with a pattern 3, I can see no way of entering the market as a seller (profit and reverse). You
must raise your stop to take profits now that you have a clear wave 4. But if the market were to pass
through here now without a pattern 3 signal, you would have to stand aside. Remem-ber, unless the
pattern is clear, conserve your capital for a better opportunity.




      www.fx1618.com
188   How To Identify High-Profit Elliott Wave Trades in Real Time



The pattern 3 is quite clear so you could move your Stop up to below wave D. There you took profits as well
as reversed your position.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                           10/C Wave Method in Action                         189

Conclusion

After walking through previouse examples, you can see how relatively easy a complex
subject can become. You will note that you made profitable trades without getting caught up
in any long-term wave counts. It is not necessary to have a deep knowledge of the Elliott
W a v e P r i n c i p l e s t o m a k e p r o f i t s a s l o n g a s y o u p a y a t tention to detail and make sure
that you follow the C wave pattern recognition rules. The experience that you need for long term
counts will come with time, but even then you must realize that Elliott Wave is an indicator of future
events and only offers the most probable out-come - new information enters the market, the wave
structure eill adapt. For this reason, never have a view on the market and keep your wave counts
up to date.




       www.fx1618.com
                                             Summary




ItElliott
    is with good reason that the Elliott Wave Theory has retained the interest of traders for more than 60 years.
          Wave is one of the few market methods that can effectively identify where the current price belongs in
  the overall structure of the market. With this informa-tion, a trader can decide whether to be buying dips or
selling the rally. The C wave patterns have taken Elliott's wave principles to a new level of precision and as
such are a significant breakthrough for real time traders. There should be no need to look at the market in
hindsight. The C wave patterns will get you on the right side of the market, whether the moves are large or small.
You must be prepared to take the time to study and match the C wave patterns every market day. Consis-
tency is the key. If you can do this, you will never miss a good trade again. This is a discipline that requires con-
stant application, but the rewards are many.




                                                                                                                  191


       www.fx1618.com
                                            Appendix

                                                  I


                        Fibonacci in a Nutshell



The Fibonacci rarios and Elliott Wave are bound to-gether in the public mind as one, but Eliott origi-
 nally conceivedl the wave theory without any knowledge that the Fibonacci sequence existed. The C
 wave pat-terns also stand alone outside any other market techni-cal inputs such as moving
averages, relative strength indexes. However, you do not have to abandon other technical studies.
When you get a reliable signal from another type of system, you can always increase your trad-ing
size.
Consider the Fibonnacci ratios only as an indicator. If you do not find any price or time ratios, do
not let that stop you from taking the trade when you have a C wave signal.




                                                                                                    193



      www.fx1618.com
194 Appendix 1
   The Fibonacci sequence made up like this:
  1 + 2 = 3
            2+3+5
                     3+5=8
                                        8 + 13 = 21
and so on to infinity.
The Fibonacci ratios used in market calculations are expressed in percentage
terms as follows :
38,2 % 61,8 % 138,2 % 161,8 % 238,2 % 261,8 %
This is how it works in theory: Say that the market has moved up 100 points and is now pulling back. You
would look to buy when the market is at 62 points         that is 100 - 38.2 points 38 points that is 100 - 61 8
points or if wave 1 was 100 points and wave 2 was 40 points, you would look to sell wave 3 at the different
Fibonacci ratio points. These are calculated by adding them to the end of wave 1 (which in this case is 100
points).
The Fibonacci ratios would give the following sell points. sell at 138 = (100 x 38 2% + 100)
162 = (100 x 61 8% + 100)
238 = (100 x 138 2% + 100)
262 = (100 x 161 8% + 100)
338 = (100x238.2%+ 100)
362 = (100x261.8%+ 100)




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                            Fibonacci Ratios in a Nutshell   195

You can see the problem. There are now so many sell points that it would be foolish to use the ratios
by them-selves as a method for finding a target. It is quite likely that t h e market w i l l reverse for a
while from around one of those points, but the risks of selling at these ratio targets outweight the
gains. More rewarding is using the ratios to predict the likely termination time of a correction.
Fibonacci time targets are calculated the same way as price. Take the time of wave A and
wave B when added together, and multiply them by the Fibonacci ratios. For instance, if wave A and
wave B when added together equal 10 time periods, your time targets for the end of wave C are 4, 6,
14, 16, 24 and 26 time periods.
I can not stress this point enough. At this stage, the Fibonacci ratios are only an indicator and
remain so until a definitive set of rules can be discovered that will enable them to be used with
consistency in the real world of trading.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                   Appendix

                                                       II


                                    Daily Worksheet




When counting waves, the practiced trader puts in a lot of work—almost subconsciously
 Using a daily worksheet, you can lay out logically the complete analytical process so that, by following all the
steps, you will always arrive at the best answer. In following this process, you become a detective—putting
together the clues that tell you where and when the next market move will happen. The daily worksheet will save
you considerable time even after you become proficient at Elliott Wave counts. This checklist lays out every step
so that no potential clue can be overlooked. You may want to photocopy the worksheet for east of use.

No matter what type of trading you do, always look at charts of one higher degree than you normally use. If you
trade in intraday, do a preliminary wave count using the daily charts. If you use daily charts, look at the weekly
and monthly charts. This preliminary count does not need to be strictly accurate on this initial glance, but it
does serve to remind you the type of market that you are in and therefore lend a sense of
perspective.
  If you are trading currencies or stock market futures that are trending in nature, you must
eventually do long-term wave counts using monthly charts. But if you are trading markets such as live
cattle, which obviously oscillate in price bands, there is no point in trying to do long term counts
when the most useful application of Elliott Waves is on daily charts.
WHEN USING THE WORKSHEET, CIRLE THE + OR - SIGNS SO THAT YOU HAVE A QUICK REFERENCE OF THE
WORK THAT YOU have already done. The more + signs that you have, the more likely that your
analysis is correct. Mark your investigative ideas under comments to keep them fresh in your mind.




       www.fx1618.com                                                                                         197
                                                                                                           Daily Worksheet 199

                Daily Worksheet

                Wave 1
    +           Can you count five waves (three in the direction on the trend, two corrective)
    +           Do the two corrective waves show alteration?
    +           Is the a lteration in the term of price?
    +           Is the alteration in the term of wave structure (e.g. the first may be an a b c, the second an a b c d e, or the
                first may be a flat the second may be a zigzag?
    +   -       Is the alternation in in the form of time? For instance, correction 1 may be five days, correction 2 noticeably
                longer or shorter. Also at this point, check for Fibonacci time ratios between the first and second corrections
                (e.g. the first correction took ten days, the second took six days, therefore correction 2 is approximately 61.80
                percent of correction 1).
    +       - Are there any Fibonacci time ratios between correction 1 and correction 2? If there is no alternation
              between correction 1 and 2, you might be in a corrective zigzag pattern. Zigzags often act the same way as an
              impulse. For practical purposes at this stage, treat the move as impulsive until there is more evidence. Wave
              1 may be extending, and the move may be showing power because of some strong underlying fundamental
              considerations that you are as yet unaware of.
+           - When comparing the three waves that move in the direction of the new trend, is one of these waves longer
              than the other two? If the waves are all similar in price, note that they may possibly be a zigzag and not the
              start of a new impulse move.
+           -       When comparing the three waves that move in the direction of the new trend, is the middle wave
                longer in price than at least one of the other waves?




                       www.fx1618.com
200    Apendix 2

If the middle wave is the shortest, this move is a correction
If you believe that you are in wave 1 and you can count only three waves before wave 4 enters the price area
of wave 1, you are now in wave B of a correction

Comments____________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________



Wave 2
+        -    Is wave 2 a correction of at leat a simple ABC?
+        -      Compared to wave 1, does wave 2 take a least one-third of the amount of time to complete
(e.g., wave 1 took ten periods to complete, wave 2 must take at least three periods)?
+         -    Has wave 2 retraced more than 99 percent of wave 1? If so, this is definitely not wave 2. You
must either be in wave B of a correction and the wave that you have labeled as wave 1 was a zigzag not an
impulse, or your count is totally incorrect in which case you will need to go through the whole process again from
at least three waves back.
+        -     Does wave A subdivide into three smaller waves?
+        -     Does wave B subdivide into three smaller waves?
+       -    Does wave C subdivide into five smaller waves? If this happens, there is a strong chance that
wave 2 is now complete and you should take any entry signal in the direction of the trend.




       www.fx1618.com
                                                                                        Daily Worksheet 201

If at this point a five wave triangle occurs with every wave clearly subdivided, you are in wave B not wave 2.
The exception to this is intraday currencies where you will often see that wave 2 on a 120 minute chart is a
small triangle. Wave 2 can often be a running correction during strong impulsive markets. Wave A, wave B
and wave C will be corrective, so there should be no confusion
Comments_________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________




Wave3
+     -      Can you count five waves (three in the direction of the trend, two corrective)?
+     -      Do the two corrective waves show alternation?
+     -      Is the alternation in the form of price?
+     -      Is the alternation in the form of wave structure?
+     -     Is the alternation in the form of time?
            At this point, check for Fibonacci time ratios between the first and second correction.
+     -      Are there any Fibonacci time ratios between correction 1 and correction 2?
+    -     When comparing the three waves that move in the direction of the new trend, is one of these
waves longer than the other two?




      www.fx1618.com
202       APENDIX 2

+             When comparing the three waves that move in the direction of the new trend, is the middle
wave longer in price than at least one of the other waves?
If the middle wave is the shortest, this move is a correction
If you believe that you are in wave 3 and you can count only three waves before wave 4 enters the price area
of wave 1, you are now in wave B of an irregular correction

Comments____________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________



Wave 4
+     -     Can you count three waves only in wave A?
+     -     Can you count three waves only in wave B?
+     -     Can you count either three or five waves in wave C?
+    -      Wave 4 can be a five wave triangle If so, are all five legs made up of three waves, not five?
Wave 4 can often take up much more time and be far more complex than wave 2 As an indicator that wave 4 is
complete, use Fibonacci time ratios.




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                                        Dally Worksheet 201

+     -      When you compare the time that wave 2 took to complete, does wave 4 relate by any
Fibonacci ratio (such as, 61.8 percent, 1 6 1 . 8 percent, 238.2 percent or 261.8 percent)?
+      -       Does wave 4 stay out of the price range of wave 1? If the answer in no, you are definitely in a
correction. Wave 4 can be shorter in time if wave 2 was unusually complex and time-consuming. In this case,
wave 4 will often be a severe price correction and will be obvious when you look at your price charts.
+     -     Is there price alternation between wave 2 and wave 4?
+    -   Is there structure alternation between wave 2 and wave 1 (e.g., wave 2 may be a zigzag and
wave 4 a flat)?
+     -       Is there lime alternation between wave 2 and wave 4?
+      -       Has a contracting triangle completed?
At this point, be prepared to take any entry signal in the direction of the trend.
Comments:_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________




          www.fx1618.com
204   Appendix 2

Wave 5


+           Can you count five waves in the direction of the trend, two corrective ?
+           Do the two corrective waves show alteration?
+           Is the alteration in the term of price? Is the alteration in the term of
wave structure?
+           Is the alteration in the term of time? Also at this point check for Fibonacci time
ratios between the first and second corrections.

+           Are there any Fibonacci time ratios between correction 1 and correction 2?

+    -    When comparing the three waves that move in the direction of the trend, is one of these
waves longer than the other two?
+     - When comparing the three waves that move in the direction of the new trend, is THE MIDDLE
WAVE longer in price than at least one of the other waves? If the middle wave is the shortest, this move
is a correction. If you believe that you are in wave 5 and you can count only three waves before wave 4
enters the price area of wave 1, you are still in a correction.

Comments
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________




      www.fx1618.com
                                                                                           Dally Worksheet   205



Wave 5 Triangle
If wave 1 has obviously completed but the next move in the direction of the trend is corrective, you
have a good case that a triangle top is forming. Wave 1 will at first appear impulsive, but when
you look closer to its structure, you will find that it is actually corrective.
Is t h e r e a lack of alternation between the two corrective waves t h a t make up wave 1 in three
following ways?
Time Price
Structure
+        Is the third waveof wave 1the shortest of the three waves? This is
not essential.
+     -     Ca n you deduce from the above answers that wave 1 is corrective? In this case, relabel wave
1 as wave A.
+            Does wave 2 subdivide into three waves only? If so, label this as wave B.
+            Does wave 3 subdivide into three waves only? If so, label this as wave C.
+      -     Does wave 4 subdivide into three waves only? If so, label this as wave D.
+            Do the price ranges of wave B, wave C, and wave D overlap?

+      -     Does wave 5 subdivide into three waves only? If so, label this as wave E.
+      -     Sometimes wave 5 will appear impulsive and will make new market highs, but on closer
inspection wave 5 will be corrective. Is there lack of alternation between the two corrective waves that
make up wave 5 in the following ways?
+     -      Time
+     -      Price


+      -     Structure

+     -    Is the third wave of wave 1 the shortest of three waves?
(This is not essential).

+       -  Can you deduce from the above answers that wave 5 is corrective? In this
case relabel wave 5 as wave E.
At this point draw a trend line linking waves B and D. When this trend line is broken,
the wave 5 triangle is complete.
Place an entry stop underneath/above the start of wave d with a protective stop loss
above/below the high/low. The market will now begin a change of trend or wnter a
major corrective period. Its price strength and duration will depend on degree of the
waves that you have been analyzing.




      www.fx1618.com
www.fx1618.com
