 

 

 

J.M. Hurst
Cycles Course

Lesson 1:
How Price Action Works

PO Box 6206
Greenville, SC 29606

Serving Traders Since 1975

 

 

 


CycliTec Services Training Course

Lesson No. 1

How Price Action Works

Please Read the PREFACE Before
Turning On Your Tape Unit


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Rights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Preface .... sees sees

SECTION 1 Introduction— Cyclic Concepts
Commonality and Cyclicality .
Price Waves

SECTION 2 A Cyclic Trade

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved
The Wave ceeees
Summation
Waves In Price Action :
Harmonicity and Synchronicity
Proportionality and Nominality
Variation

Summary

Glossary

Self-Examination

Cassette Script

Page i


Page ii

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

 

 

igure
1 Two Cycles of a Price Wave i
2 Daily High-Low Bar Chart of Copper, 11-24: n
3. Analyzed Trading Situation Conclusion
4 A Fully Analyzed Trading Situation
5 The Results of a Fully Analyzed Trading Situation
6 The Amplitude of a Wave
7 The Period of a Wave
8 The Phase Difference Between Two Waves
9 Exercise in Adding Three Waves .
10 The Three Waves of Figure 1-9 Added Correctly -
11 The Summation of Two Waves :
12 Exercise in Adding Trend to the Composite Wave
12a Composite Wave Added Correctly to Trend
13. Typical Waves in Price Action
14 Harmonicity and Synchronicity .
15 Synchronicity, Harmonicity, and 'Proportionality
16 Variation in Amplitude and Period
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1-1 The Nominal Cyclic Model
Table 1-2 The Simplified Nominal Model

 

 

Page
31

31

paasasoy svg RE IV
“uy *ssaag S49PBI] E161 @ WsLAdo)

petaiuelg Anowis vorssiueg inowim BuNUUdeL!


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘lll Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

PREFACE

The Teaching Method

We will be using a teaching method that recent studies have shown to be
faster and more effective than more orthodox methods. The presentation
of material will be made from the top down, rather than from the bottom
up. This means that you will first be given a broad overview of the sub-
ject matter to be covered by the course. Then the same material will be
presented again, but on this second pass the information given will
become more specific and more detailed. Additional passes will be made,
each time with increased depth and detail in the treatment of the subject
matter, until you have finally been brought to the high level of capability
that is our objective for the course.

The teaching method is being described to you because, for it to be fully
effective, it is necessary that you know about it in advance and adjust
your learning method to match. More orthodox teaching methods present
the total material on a step by step basis, and the student is required to
understand each step completely before the next step is presented. Most
students are accustomed to such teaching methods and expect to learn in
this step by step manner. When confronted with the earlier passes in the
new teaching method where some material is only lightly touched on,
such students will have many questions raised in their minds. They may
react with a mental block, or at least, with a shift of attention to puzzling
over the unanswered questions.

You must consciously make an effort to resist such reactions. Let the
unanswered questions go; they will be answered later in the course. Don’t
allow yourself to be distracted by premature concern over details. The
details will be provided by the time you need them. Just relax and absorb
the flow of information as it is presented to you. At the end of the course
you will be amazed at how much you have learned, and how easily.

Structure of the Course

The course is divided into ten lessons. Each lesson, in turn, is divided into
several sections. The from-the-top-down teaching method just described
for the course as a whole will also be applied at the lesson level and
again at the section level.

Page iii


Page iv

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

PREFACE (Cont'd)
Structure of the Course (Cont'd)

The first-pass, broad-brush treatment of a new subject will be presented
to you by means of narration on a magnetic tape cassette. At the
appropriate point, the narrator will ask you to turn off your cassette
playback unit and refer to a certain portion of the text material. This text
material will provide the second pass, going back over the same subject
introduced in the cassette, but offering new information, greater depth of
understanding. When appropriate, a third pass will be made in the text,
possibly including an exercise so that you can have a point emphasized
by actual participation. At the end of the section, the text will indicate
that you are to turn your cassette playback unit on again. The narrator
will introduce a new subject, then refer you once again back to the text.

After the last section, a summary of the entire lesson will be presented.
This summary will serve to emphasize important information and also
act as a convenient point of reference on those later occasions when you
wish to check on some item that was covered in the lesson.

Following the summary, there will be a self-administered examination
that will allow you to assure yourself that you have mastered all the
material presented.

Each new lesson will begin with a cassette narration review of the
previous lesson before launching into introduction of the new material.
Although a written transcript of the cassette narration is provided at the
end of each lesson text, it is very important to the teaching method used
that the narrated material be heard rather than read. If you do not have a
tape cassette play-back unit, you are strongly urged to obtain one for use
in this course.

In preparing the material for this course, it has been assumed that the
student is already acquainted with the following areas:

a. Equity auction markets and how they operate

The various brokerage services available and how to use them

c. Equity price bar-charts, how they are constructed, and how they are
read

s

poarasoy sR IV
“buy ‘ssaud S20pEAL EL6T @ IHALNKOD

1S uoissiwieg inownina BuuudeR,

 


ion Strictly Prohibited

 

Reprinting Without Perm

1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

 

Copyright

CycliTec Services Training Course Page v

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

PREFACE (Cont'd)

Structure of the Course (Cont'd)

These assumptions have been made because there is a large body of
excellent literature already available on these subjects.

If you should feel the need to increase your knowledge in any of these
areas, the following references, among others, would probably serve.

On the stock market:
Engel, Louis. How to Buy Stocks. 4th rev. ed.
Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1967. Also, rev. ed.
pap. Bantam, 1972.

On the commodity market:
Hieronymus, Thomas A. Economics of Futures Trading: for
Commercial and Personal Profit. Commodity Research

Bureau, 1971.

Gold, Gerald. Modern Commodity Futures Trading.
Commodity Research Bureau, 1959.

On charting:

Weld, Walter E. How to Chart: Facts from Figures With
Graphs. Norwood, Mass.: Codex Book Co.

Edwards, Robert D. & Magee, John Technical Analysis of
Stock Trends. 5th ed. Magee.

PLEASE INSTALL YOUR LESSON NO. 1 CASSETTE
IN YOUR TAPE UNIT NOW, AND TURN THE UNIT ON.


 

Proti

 

 

i
i
3
t
:

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 1 Introduction — Cyclic Concepts Commonality and
Cyclicality

Price actions of various stock issues and commodity contracts have
many elements in common in spite of the fact that the individual
charts often look dramatically different.

This is known as the Principle of Commonality. \t is this principle
that makes the methods taught in this course applicable to all negot-
iable equities on all of the markets of the world.

There are seven elements to the Principle of Commonality. These
seven elements will be discussed individually in the following
material.

The most fundamental element of commonality is the fact that all
price movements of all stocks and commodities consist of a
combination of the same number and kinds of single price waves.

This is known as the Principle of Cyclicality and is an element of
Commonality. It is this principle that makes possible a degree of pre-
diction of the time of occurrence of price reversals and the extent of
the subsequent price move.

Price Waves

Aprice wave is a simple, symmetrical, and infinitely repeating oscil-
lation or fluctuation in price from a trough to a crest and back again.
Figure 1-1 is a graphic illustration of the shape of such a price wave.

Asingle repetition of a wave movement is called a cycle. In figure 1-1
two complete cycles of a single wave are shown.

Note in figure 1-1 that a single price wave varies above and below
zero price, hence can take on both positive and negative price values.

Stock and commodity prices cannot, however, be zero or negative. As
we will see later, prices vary in this wave-like manner about some
positive price level that is high enough so that prices never become
zero or negative.

Page 1


Page 2 CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 1 Introduction — Cyclic Concepts Price Waves (Cont'd)

Study figure 1-1 with care until you have absorbed the meaning and
implications of this simplest of wave concepts, then

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

poazasoy swung IY

“DUT 894g SsOPEAL £161 @ BLEKdO

periaioig Anouis vorssiwied inounns SunvudoL,


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

ights Reserved

 

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Paice

 

 

 

 

CycliTec Services Training Course Page 3

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 1 Introduction — Cyclic Concepts Price Waves (Cont'd)

8 (WAVE CREST)

 

 

c rust snow arian]

A WAVE TROUGH) C QWAVE TROUGH)

Figure 1-1
Two Cycles of a Price Wave

A simple, single price wave of the kind that combines to form stock
and commodity price action.

Only two cycles of this wave are shown, but the wave itself extends
infinitely far to the left and to the right.

Such waves repeat themselves cycle after cycle. As a result, once
the wave is identified, its value can be determined at any past or
future time. It is this characteristic of waves that provides a degree of
predictability for equity price action.


Reprinting without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Alll Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 2 A Cyclic Trade

© Figure 1-2 is a daily price bar-chart of the March 1973 commodity
futures contract for copper. It was selected as being typical of
commodity futures price action.

* Some degree of rhythmic, wave-like motion of the kind we have been
discussing is visually apparent in this chart. In spite of this fact, it is
almost impossible to estimate with any degree of certainty what pric-
es are likely to do next — just by observing this chart alone.

* Several questions need answering: Should this contract be bought,
sold short, or left alone at this time? When and at what price level
will the downward move now underway be reversed? When it is
reversed, how far will prices then move up? What risks would be in-
curred and what profits hoped for if one were to enter into a trans-
action in this contract now?

* This section has been provided at this very early stage in your train-
ing to demonstrate that answers to questions such as these can be ob-
tained by making proper use of cyclic concepts. You should not at-
tempt at this point to understand the processes necessary to arrive at
such answers. Understanding will come to you as the course progres-
ses. Right now it is enough if you are impressed with the fact that
cyclic concepts can provide so much information about the probable
future of price moves. If you are thus impressed, it is hoped you
will then be strongly motivated to bring yourself to the level of exper-
tise required to make proper use of the concepts and methods taught
in the rest of the course.

© Please turn now to figure 1-3. Here you see exactly the same price
bar-chart shown in figure 1-2. However, new information has been ad-
ded. From this information, from knowledge of cyclic concepts, and
with the analysis techniques taught in this course, a complete graphi-
cal analysis was constructed. From this analysis certain conclusions
were drawn. Some of these conclusions are shown in the figure and
the remainder are described in the text fo follow. The graphical an-
alysis that provided the conclusions is presented in figure 1-4 so you
will realize that these conclusions were not arrived at by guess work,
but by well defined techniques. By the time you have completed this

Page 4


Page 5 CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 2 A Cyclic Trade (Cont'd)

course, you should be able to perform such analyses for yourself on
any stock or commodity you select.

Do not become lost in the complexities of the analysis itself. The per-
tinent conclusions from the analysis are all that need concern you at
the moment. Referring to figure 1-3, the first five of these con-
clusions are as follows:

peazasoy s9q3ra TV
“uy ‘ssaug SH9PBAL ¢L61 @ WEUAdOD

1. This contract should not under any circumstances be shorted at
this time.

2. It is highly probable that sometime very soon prices will stop
going down and reverse to go strongly up.

3. Probabilities strongly favor that this reversal of price motion has
already started, and that prices will not go below the low reached a
week ago at 47.10 until they have first reached the price (marked
S) of 52.9. In the process, prices should pause in the zones of PZ1
and PZ2.

4. In spite of the long downward move over the last 12 weeks, prices
for the last week have been moving slightly up. This short up move
will, with high probability, reverse within a few days, and the con-
tract should then trade in the vicinity (marked B) of 47.6.

dou

 

5. If you should decide to initiate a trade, your instructions to your
broker would be to buy if prices retreat to 47.6. If they do so, and if
your purchase is made at this price or better, he should immedi-
ately enter a stop-loss order at the price marked SL in the figure.
At the same time, he should enter a good-until-cancelled sell order
at the price marked S.

19 voreetueg inowim 6

 

* Now please turn to figure 1-4 where the remaining conclusions can be
more easily followed. On the day that this analysis was made, you
would also have known the following:

penaiuoid 4

6. If you placed such orders with your broker the following Monday,
the probabilities would strongly favor a successful trade.


CycliTec Services Training Course Page 6

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS.

SECTION 2 A Cyclic Trade (Cont'd)

z 7. The potential gross gain for the trade would be 5.3 price units, or
6 176.7 percent (using minimum margin available at the time).

8. To say that probabilities strongly favor a successful trade does not
mean that the trade cannot go wrong. However, if this trade should
go wrong, your losses are likely to be of the order of 0.55 price units,
or 18.3 percent. Thus, you stand to gain approximately 9 times as
much on the transaction as you stand to lose.

 

9. If these were acceptable odds to you, you might make the decision
to proceed. If not, you would decide to look for a more attractive
situation. It is important to notice that these methods of analysis
permit you to assess the situation in this highly quantitive way
before you enter a transaction. Herein lies the big difference be-
tween the Cyclic Concept approach to trading or investing and
other approaches.

Reprinting Without Permission S

Now turn to figure 1-5, which shows what prices did through 2 Feb-
ruary 1973. The stop-loss level, buy price, and sell level established on
24 November 1972 have been drawn in.

Note that:

1. Prices did, indeed, withdraw over the next several days after 24
November, permitting a purchase at the desired buy price.

2. They did, indeed, reach the selling objective without going below
the stop-loss level again.

3. The down move prior to 24 November 1972 was, indeed, in the pro-
cess of being reversed at the time of the analysis.

. Prices did pause in the price zones PZ1 and PZ2 before going on up
to the sell level.

hts Reserved
B

 

You must be cautioned that such analyses will not always result in a
successful trade such as this one. All that can be said is that experi-
ence to date indicates that the probabilities favor success over fail-
ure. Even if your success ratio were only 50 percent, the fact that pro-
fits would exceed losses in size by a factor of 2 or 3 would assure net
profits over a number of such trades.

<

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.


on Steietly Prohibited

iting Without Permiss

Repel

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
'AIl Rights Reserved

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS
SECTION 2 A Cyclic Trade (Cont'd)

cor WEEK ENDING: 24 NOV 1972 DAILY

ly
| i! Nh \ "

 

‘4 My iF

|

I |

 

 

Figure 1-2
Daily High-Low Bar Chart Of Copper
As Of 24 Nov. 1972

Page 7


€

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bi" ba NOV 1972

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DAILY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


€ € €
CoP WEEK ENDING: 24 NOV 1972 DAILY VOL=1.0

     
   

LESSON NO. 1: HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to 2% sb 4b 6b 6d 7 6b © dv 10 ado 130 140 160 160 140 10 1d0 ado

 

 

MA

55 60 65 70 75

 

| lie

ttt

wlll all {|
eae


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved
The Wave

© There are three quantities that completely describe a wave:

amplitude, period, and phase.

The amplitude of a wave is the extent of the swing from a wave
trough to a wave crest. For a price wave, amplitude is expressed in

dollars and cents, or some other monitary denomination. Please re-
fer to figure 1-6.

The period of a wave is the time span required for one complete
cycle of that wave. Period is expressed in units of time, such as days,
weeks, or months. Please refer to figure 1-7.

The phase of a wave describes its relationship in time with re-

spect to another wave. Phase is expressed in units of time. Please
refer to figure 1-8.

After studying figures 1-6, 1-7, and 1-8,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Page 11


z

 

Reprinting Without Permission

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Al Rights Reserved

DOLLARS —a

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved The Wave (Cont'd)

 

TT TTT T

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cr
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 1-6
The Amplitude of a Wave

In this figure the wave has an amplitude of 10 dollars (from minus 5

dollars to plus 5 dollars). Amplitude is always measured from wave
trough to wave crest.

Page 12


 

Proti

 

Ror

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

COLLARS ae

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved The Wave (Cont'd)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

———— 100 —____»

 

 

   

Figure 1-7
The Period of a Wave

In this figure the wave has a period of 20 days, which is shown measured
between two consecutive wave troughs. The period could just as well
have been measured between wave crests. But in the case of price waves,
the wave troughs are usually more clearly defined than the wave crests
for reasons that will be discussed in a later lesson. Consequently, price
wave periods are most often measured from trough to trough.

 


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited ©

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

DoLLass ee

   

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved The Wave (Cont'd)

 

TTT T_T

    

 

  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

 

 

 

 

Figure 1-8
The Phase Difference Between Two Waves

The phase difference between the two waves shown is 6 days. This phase
difference is measured between the troughs of the two waves because,
again, wave troughs are the most convenient points to identify in the case
of price waves.

Page 4


CycliTec Services Training Course Page 15

@ LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)
Summation

 

«Price waves having different periods and amplitudes combine by
simple addition to form the complex price action observed in stock
and commodity price charts. This fact is referred to as the Principle
of Summation and is an element of Commonality

* The price movements of all issues of all stocks and all contracts of all
commodities are the result of such a summation of the same number
and kinds of simple waves.

Reprinting Without Permission St

* The process of summation is illustrated for the case of two simple
waves in figure 1-11.

* In this figure note the values of waves A and B at the time represent-
ed by the left-most dotted line. At this time wave A has a value of
-10.0, and wave B has a value of -5.0. Adding these two values, -10.0
plus -5.0, results in a sum of -15.0. This is the value that is then plotted
for the composite wave C for that moment in time.

* — Similarly, at the time represented by the center dotted line, wave A

 

z value is -3.8 and wave B value is +3.5. The corresponding composite
é wave C value is therefore -3.8 plus 3.5, which is -0.3.

ot

33 * At the right-most dotted line, wave A is at +10.0, wave B is at -5.0,
oe and the resulting value of the composite wave C is 10.0 plus -5.0,
ge which is 5.0.

z=

£ * The summation process is only shown for the three times indicated
é by the dotted lines, but if this same procedure were used for each

time value for which waves A and B are shown in this figure, then the
result would be the composite wave C over the full time interval
shown. Waves A and B are called components of the composite
wave C.

* Its important for you to gain an intimate feel for the results of sum-
ming waves. Figure 1-9 has been provided for this purpose.


Page 16

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)
Summation (Cont'd)

In this figure, three component waves are shown. You should com-
plete the figure by properly adding the three waves and plotting the
composite wave at the top of the figure. (The addition can be done
graphically very quickly and easily. Use pencil marks on the edge of
‘a small slip of paper to transfer the wave values from the three com-
ponents to the composite. Pay proper attention to positive and nega-
five values.) The correct summation is shown in figure 1-10 so that
you can check your result.

Now, in figure 1-12, the correct composite wave of figure 1-10 is
shown along with a sloping straight line. Use the same summation
technique to add the two together. Plot the result at the top of figure
1-12. Again, the correct result is displayed in figure1-12a for verifi
cation purposes.

Looking at figure 1-10, it is seen that this composite of three waves
still varies from negative to positive values, quite unlike equity
prices. But the same composite of three waves when added to the
sloping straight line of figure 1-12 produces a new composite that is
never zero or negative (over the time interval shown). Even with
only three waves and a straight line summed together, the result is
now appearing considerably more like actual stock and commodity
price movements. As the remaining principles and characteristics of
the cyclic concept are presented, the rationale for the Principle of
Cyclicality will become more and more evident.

‘As a matter of convention when discussing component price waves,
waves with long periods will be spoken of as fong waves; with
reference to period being understood. Similarly, waves with short
periods will be spoken of as short waves.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

paasasoy Sudra ITV.
-puy ‘ssaud S12PBL, E61 WBLKGOD

poiaiuord ARaWS volss}wied inowin BuRUUdSY,


Page 7

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

'd)

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved Summation (Cont’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pevjaiuoig Anois vojesiuseg inowir SunULdoy

 

poaseny twa IV
“sup aug S19pEAL ELST @ HLA.)

Figure 1-9
Exercise in Adding Three Waves


Reprinting Without Permission Strietly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

‘All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS.

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved Summation (Cont'd)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 1-10
The Three Waves of Figure 1-9 Added Correctly

Page 18


CycliTec Services Training Course Page 19

@ LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved Summation (Cont'd)

 

 

 

   
 

   

* Courosine
Wave c.

 

13 Traders Press, Ine.

Rights Reserved

     

 

 

 

 

@ Figure 1-11
The Summation of Two Waves

The dotted lines show how, at each point in time, the value of wave A is
added to the value of wave B to produce the value of composite wave C.


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

DOLLARS —e

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

 

 

 

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved Summation (Cont'd)

 

BGFERENICE Une,

REFERENCE LINE,

 

 

tive ——o}

 

 

 

 

Figure 1-12
Exercise in Adding Trend to the Composite Wave

Page 20


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

 

 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO.
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

 

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved — Summation (Cont'd)

 

   

REFERENCE LINE.

REFERENCE LINE

 

 

 

 

Figure 1-12a
Composite Wave Added Correctly To Trend

Page 21


Pronipited

 

ing Without Permission St

 

es

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)
Waves in Price Action

Price waves combining by summation can produce very complex
composite patterns in which it is very difficult to observe the individ-
ual component waves directly.

Exceptions occur in which the activity of a single price wave is clear-
ly visible, and one of these is illustrated in figure 1-13. This is a plot of
the Dow Jones Industrial Average on a monthly basis over an approx-
imately 20 year period of time.

In this figure, four cycles of a price wave (with the period ranging
from 51 to 53 months) are exceptionally evident. This is the price
wave responsible for what are commonly known as “bull” and
“bear” markets.

This is a particularly long wave; shorter ones will be discussed soon
which are more useful in most trading and investing operations.

Price waves such as the one seen in figure 1-13 exist over all time and
are relatively independent of so-called “fundamental” factors such as
wars, currency crises, etc.

As noted in this figure, price wave periods (as measured from the
composite wave that is price movement) are not always constant in
value. Additional Cyclic Concept principles will explain this observa-
tion, and the methods of use of Cyclic Concepts must take such dif-
ferences into account.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

Page 22


Page 23

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Waves in Price Action

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved

 

WoNDY a2rtd Ul saneM jerIdAy
ELL eanbiy

 

 

 

mn
+

96
F su9y 25 +

   

 

 

 

 

“Duy ss94q ssp EL E161 @ 1YBUKdO.)

ei weg moun Bunuudoy

 


 

Lights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)
Harmonicity and Synchronicity

* The periods of neighboring component waves in price action tend to

be related by a small, whole number, usually two. This statement is
referred to as the Principle of Harmonicity and is an element of
Commonality.

* By “‘neighboring’” waves is meant those waves closest to one another
in length of period.

* Waves in price action strongly tend to be so phased as to result in the
wave troughs of a given componentoccurring simultaneously with
wave troughs on all shorter components and simultaneously with
wave troughs on all longer components whenever the period relation-
ships will allow. This fact is referred to as the Principle of Synch.
ronicity and is an element of commonality.

* These two principles are visually demonstrated in figure 1-14.

* In section a of this figure, two waves are shown in the proper re-

lationship to demonstrate both principles. The period of wave A is
twice that of wave B, and wave A is synchronous with wave B as
indicated by the coincidence of the two sets of wave troughs identi-
fied by the dotted lines.

* Now note section b of this figure. Here, exactly the same waves are

shown as in section a, except that the lower wave has been drawn
with non-synchronous phase.Harmonicity is satisfied, but synchron-
icity is not — and as a result, no troughs of these two waves would
ever occur at the same time.

* Observe next section c of this figure. Here the upper wave is identi-

cal to the upper wave of sections a and b. However, the lower wave
has a period that is not related to that of the upper wave by a small
whole number as would be required by harmonicity. In this instance
the factor is not two or three, but is instead 1.333. The two wave
troughs on the left coincide, but it is obvious that a number of cycles
of the lower wave (certainly more than two) will be completed before
the troughs of the two waves can again coincide.

Page 24


Page 25

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)
Harmonicity and Synchronicity (Cont'd)

These two principles demonstrate most vividly how extensively or-
dered price movements really are. Out of all of the possible sets of
combinations of wave periods, amplitudes, phases, modes of combin-
ation, etc.,price data of all equities exhibits just one specific set.
Now you are beginning to glimpse what was meant when it was stat-
ed earlier that as different as charts of individual issues look, they
all have very much in common — and these common elements can
impart a great deal of useful information if we know enough about
them.

Now for a look at one of the implications of the principles of Harmon-
icity and Synchronicity that will have a great deal to do with the fact
that long (buy) transactions are approached in a different way than
short (sell) transactions.

Please refer back to figure 1-13. Note here the general appearance of
the dominating component wave. For all of the samples shown, each
of the wave crests is seen fo be generally rounded in nature. By con-
trast, notice the associated wave troughs, which are uniformly sharp
and peaked in shape. These characteristics are obviously not to be ex-
pected from the shapes of the simple, single waves studied so far.

To understand what causes this phenomenon, refer now to figure 1-15.
Three waves with characteristics satisfying Harmonicity and Syn-
chronicity are shown summed to a composite wave such as you have
seen before.

Below the composite wave are three rows of diamonds. The time pos-
itions of these diamonds coincide with the troughs of the three com-
ponent waves.

Above the composite wave are three rows of triangles showing the
time positions of the crests of the three component waves.

 

Notice that the assumptions of Harmonicity and Synchronicity force
accumulations of simultaneous wave troughs and preciude the pos-
sibility of accumulations of simultaneous wave crests.

The practical meaning of this phenomenon is that as the trough ac-
cumulations, called nests-of-lows, are approached, many individual

paarasay sua TV
“buy ‘ss23g 9p] LOT O LNKEO,

2

 


sion Stictly Prohibited

 

Reprinting Without Pe

Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course Page 26

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont’d)
Harmonicity and Synchronicity (Cont'd)

waves are all acting in unison in the downward direction, causing rap-
id price drop. As the nest-of-lows is passed, this downward impetus is
reversed by all individual waves acting in unison to force prices rap-
idly upward. It is in this way that the sharp and peaked troughs are
formed in the composite price wave.

¢ Just the opposite is true in the case of the wave crests. Here Harmon-

 

icity and Synchronicity keep any two individual waves from co-oper-
ating in driving prices into or out of a peak — thus assuring a rounded
appearance to the crests of the composite price wave.

* Note how even though only three component waves go to make up

the composite wave of figure 1-15, it nevertheless displays these same
peaked troughs and rounded crests typical of Harmonicity and Syn-
chronicity in action.

© After you have thoroughly studied figures 1-14 and 1-15,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.


Page 27

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS.

ity and Synchronicity

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved Harmonicit

(Cont'd)

Pariaiyolg AjIoMIS UoIss}uweg Inout SuULdeY

 

Figure 1-14
Harmonicity and Synchronicity

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ponsasry 1UIRY TY
@ “uy “S824 S42PB4L £161 @ WUKdOy @


 

é
z

All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved Harm onicity and Synchronicity
(Cont'd)

 

Figure 1-15
Synchronicity, Harmonicity and Proportionality

 

Page 28


19 Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

  

 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)

Proportionality and Nominality (Cont'd)

* Waves in price action strongly tend to have amplitudes propor-
tional to their periods. This fact is referred to as the Principle of Pro-
portionality and is an element of Commonality.

* The component waves in composite price action strongly tend to ad-

here to a specific, nominal set of harmonically related wave periods.
This fact is referred to as the Principle of Nominality and is an ele-
ment of Commonality.

* Exercise: Satisfy yourself that you understand the Principle of Pro-
portionality by going back over the figures you have worked with so
far in this lesson. To start, refer back to figure 1-9. Measure the
period and amplitude of each wave in the figure, and show that the
waves are drawn so that doubling the period implies doubling the
amplitude as well. The results in this case ar

 

Wave Period Amplitude
1 16 8
2 8 4
3 4 2

You should follow through in this manner for figures 1-14 and 1-15.

© The Principle of Nominality tells us that it isn’t just any set of har-

monically related wave periods that is responsible for price move-
ments, but a specific set. A partial set of the actual nominal periods
was mentioned on the tape. Table 1-1 presents the complete set.

* Such a tabulation of the nominal wave periods is referred to as the

nominal cyclic model, or nominal model for short.

* Notice that the period of each component wave in the model is re-
lated to the period of the next longer wave by a factor of two, except
for the 18.month component. In this case, the next longer period, 54
months, is three times the 18 months. This is one of the fairly infre-
quent occurrences of the three to-one-relationship, and it has been in
effect for a great many years.

* A simplified version of the model,which is close enough for prac-
tical purposes and is much easier to remember, is given in table
1-2.

Page 29


Page 30

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)
Proportionality and Nominality (Cont'd)

The nominal model shown in table 1-2 lists no waves with periods
longer than 18 years or shorter than 5 days. This does not mean that
such longer and shorter waves do not exist in price movements. In
fact the available evidence seems to indicate that there is no limit to
how long or how short such waves may be. However, the nominal
model shown includes all of the waves that need to be taken into con-
sideration when making trading and investment decisions. Even the
9-year and 18-year waves seldom need to be taken into account, as
you will see in later lessons of the course.

You may notice that in the simplified nominal model the 80-day com-
ponent is not exactly one half of the 20-week (140-day) component.
80 days was used in order to provide the convenient and very easily
remembered set of daily components shown in the table. As you will
see in later lessons, this choice will not lead to any lack of compliance
with the Principle of Harmonicity in our final analysis. Now,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

poasasay S143
“pay ‘ssazg S29pe4L £161 @ WBUAAOD

1 volssiuied inowim SunuUdeR

 

ponaiyors


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Pronibites

I Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course Page 31

LESSON NO. 1

HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved
Proportionality and Nominality (Cont'd)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 1-1
The Nominal Cyclic Model

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Table 1-2
The Simplified Nominal Model


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Rights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)
Variation

The basic cyclic principles discussed in previous sections are gener-
al and are to be considered as strong tendencies rather than
absolutes.

In actual price action, differences from the strong tendencies des-
cribed by these principles occur. These differences are calledvaria-
tions. The existence of variations is referred to as the Principle of
Variation and is an element of Commonality.

Most variation is real, but some is only apparent variation. An
example of the latter occurs when attempts are made to visually
identify the time locations of component wave troughs in the com-
posite waves of actual price movement. The summing of many waves
that produces the composite wave can cause the individual com-
ponent wave action to be obscured. When this happens, determin-
ation of component wave period by measurement from trough to
trough on the composite wave will show apparent variation. Thus,
several samples of a wave period obtained in this manner will not
necessarily be equal in length.

The most outstanding example of real variation is related to wave
amplitudes and periods. Ideal waves with constant amplitude and
period have been used so far to clarify the meaning of the basic
principles involved. Actual price waves have periods and amplitudes
which vary slowly as time passes.

Figure 1-16 illustrates this aspect of the Principle of Variation in
action. This figure is taken from the book “The Profit Magic of Stock
Transaction Timing” by J. M. Hurst and is reproduced here by per-
mission of the publisher, Prentice-Hall, Inc.

In the bottom portion of this figure is a wave, not unlike those you are
familiar with. This wave was extracted from the actual price action
of the issue shown and is typical of component waves in com-
posite price action.

Note how this wave constantly changes amplitude from cycle to
cycle. In addition, when the amplitude is large, the period tends to be
larger also. Toward the right of the figure, where wave amplitude
is small, it will be noticed that period has decreased slightly also.

 


Page 33

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved (Cont'd)
Variation (Cont'd)

(This decrease in period with decreasing amplitude is not large
enough to be in proportion to the decrease in amplitude, however.
It should not be confused with the Principle of Proportionality,
which applies between different components rather than to a single
component. Here in this figure,we are talking about changes between
cycles of the same component.)

* Compare this extracted wave with the movements of price shown

above it until you can clearly visualize the smooth wave summed
with other such waves (both longer and shorter), the composite of all
such waves being actual price movement.

© Another important aspect of variation relates to the nominal model of

tables 1-1 and 1-2.

* You should consider this model as follows:

If you were to average all period samples of a given wave in a given
issue over a 20 year time span, you would expect the result to be very
close to one of the wave periods of the nominal model. However, at
any specific time within the 20 years, the average of a smaller
number of period samples for this wave (for example, the number of
samples contained on a six-month daily price chart) would show var-
iation from the expected nominal period. Such local variations would
fend to oscillate about the nominal value, so that a long-term aver-
age would tend to be close to nominal.

© Similarly, averaged period samples over 20 years for any other stock

issue or commodity futures contract would also come close to being
the nominal value expected. Each such other issue would also show
local variation from nominal when a smaller number of period
samples was averaged.

@ However, the amount and direction of this local variation from

nominal at any given time is likely to be different from issue to issue.
This fact is an example of another kind of variation; namely, vari-
ation from Commonality.

© The practical result of this kind of variation is that the nominal cyclic

model is useful (as are all the rest of the basic cyclic principles)
as a necessary guide — but a specific, or current, cyclic model must
be tailored to each issue in the process of analyzinga trading situ-
ation Now,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

ponuasoy S43 ITY

-auy sang S19pRA,€L61 @ WAKAO.)

ng vorseuieg mownim Sunuitey

 

3
a


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1

HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

 

SECTION 3 The Factors and Principles Involved Variation (Cont’d)
1961 1962 T 1963
| “eatin
am |
ue My I | |
. i
wo \ hy i | "i I | nt |
. fh [" th oy

|i Ph

pvt

 

 

 

 

From The Pr!

 
 

Figure 1-16

Amplitude and Period
a

by JM. Hurt,

it New dere

Page 34


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

‘Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1:

HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SUMMARY

Page 35


Page 36

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Summary

This course is based upon a new set of ideas known as Cyclic
Concepts.

These concepts permit a wholly technical approach to trading and
investing in the negotiable equity auction markets. By this it is meant
that only past data on price movements is used to determine action
to be taken in these markets at a given time.

The concepts are equally applicable to stocks, bonds, rights, war-
rants, and commodity futures contracts.

The nature of the postulates and principles involved is such that both
long-term investing and short-term trading activities can derive sim-
ilar benefits.

Eight basic principles form the nucleous for all derived methods and
tactics. These are:

 

1. The Principle of Commonality

All equity price movements have many elements in common, in
spite of the diverse visual appearances of charts of such price
action.

2. The Principle of Cyclicality

Equity price movements consist of a combination of a specific kind
and number of price waves.

3. The Principle of Summation

Price waves in equity prices always combine by simple addition to
form total price movement.

4. The Principle of Harmonicity

The periods of neighboring waves in price action are related by a
small, whole number, usually two.

pansasoy sR IV
“ou ‘ssaig SA9EAL €L61 @ WIEAGO

dou

 

ponraiuoig Anoug voIssiused INOUUAK


ly Prohibited

 

19 Without Permission 5

 

Repr

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Summary (Cont'd)

5. The Principle of Synchronicity

Waves in price action are so phased as to cause simultaneous wave
troughs whenever possible.

6. The Principle of Proportionality

Waves in price action have amplitudes proportional to their
periods.

7. The Principle of Nominality

A specific, nominal set of harmonically related waves is common
to all price movements.

8. The Principle of Variation

The principles of Harmonicity, Synchronicity, Proportionality, and
Nominality represent strong tendencies, from which variation is to
be expected at any given time.

Price waves are defined by three quantities:

1, Amplitude — which is the size of the wave, measured from trough
to crest

2. Period — which is the elapsed time for one complete cycle, meas-
ured from trough to trough

3. Phase — which is a measure of the time location of a wave
trough.

Given the three wave identification quantities (amplitude, period,
and phase), the value of a wave is predictable at any desired time
(past or future). It is this characteristic of waves that, given the
Principle of Cyclicality, implies a degree of predictability in equity
price movement.

Page 37


Page 38

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Summary (Cont'd)

The existence of the characteristics of price movement implied by
the basic principles is responsible for many of the observable idio-
syncracies of price charts. For example, it is the combination of the
Principles of Harmonicity, Synchronicity, and Proportionality that
causes generally rounded price topping action and generally sharp
price bottoming action.

The material presented in this lesson is basic in nature, and not in-

tended to be exhaustive. There are additional aspects of cyclical-
ity exist that are needed for applications, and these will be presented

in following lessons in orderly sequence.

Auseful, simplified nominal model is as follows: 18 years, 9 years, 54
months, 18 months, 9 months, 20 weeks, 80 days, 40 days, 20 days, 10
days, and 5 days. These times represent expected average periods of
component price waves.

The Principle of Variation is manifested in a number of ways. Three
of the most important of these are:

1. When waves combine to form a composite wave, the distinguish-
ing characteristics of each individual wave become hard to identify
by visual methods. For example, when attempting to establish the
time positions of individual wave troughs, such positions will at
times be difficult to locate with accuracy. Thus, a single sample of
a period measurement (from trough to trough) may differ consid-
erably from a second sample period measurement.

2. Actual price waves differ from ideal price waves in that for actual
waves both amplitude and period vary slowly as time passes.

3. Since the nominal model periods represent long-term average ex-
pectations, at any given time the current cyclic model of a stock
issue or commodity contract may exhibit a period set that differs
from the nominal model set. Also, at any given time, two issues
may have current cyclic models that vary from the nominal model
in different ways.

paasaso siya IV
“uy ‘ssaug Su9PLAL £161 @ IWBUAdOD

 

vorssiuag nou 64)

 


ing Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

 

Repr

© 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘AIl Rights Reserved

Copyright

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Summary (Cont'd)

* The nominal model does not contain all of the waves present in price
motion. Waves with periods longer than 18 years and shorter than 5
days also exist. However, the nominal model contains all of the

waves that are normally required in order to make transaction
decisions.

The small, whole number relating neighboring wave periods is two
for all cases in the nominal model, except for the one instance

involving the 18-month and 54-month waves, where the relating num-
ber is three.

Page 397


Reprinting Without Permission Stretly Prohibited

All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1

HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS.

GLOSSARY


Page 41

Glossary

AMPLITUDE:

BAR-CHART:

COMMONALITY:

COMPONENT:

COMPOSITE
WAVE:

CREST:

CYCLE:

CYCLICALITY:

CYCLIC MODEL:

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

The size or amount of the price movement involved
as a price wave goes from trough to crest.

‘A common way of plotting or graphing equity
prices. The high and low prices for a day are joined
by a vertical straight line to show the range over
which prices traded for that day. The consecutive
set of such lines is called a daily bar-chart, or bar-
graph of that equity. Similarly, the high and low
prices for a week can be compiled to form a
weekly bar-chart for the equity.

A term to indicate that price movements of nego-
tiable equities have similar qualities, in spite of the
diversity of visual appearances of price charts.

A single wave in price movement, or in the com-
posite wave formed from several single waves.
One component of price action would be, for
example, the 18-month wave, or the wave whose
period is nominally 18 months.

The single new form resulting from the combina-
tion by summation of two or more price waves and,
or other geometric figures such as straight lines.

(or WAVE CREST). The highest point on a com-
ponent price wave.

One completed movement of a price wave from
‘one trough to the next consecutive trough.

(Derived from the word CYCLE.) A generic term
referring to the wave phenomena in the price
action of equities.

(or CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL). A list of the
periods of the specific price waves active in a
given equity at a given time.

poasasoy SPE IV

“ouy ssoug sHapH] EL61 @ WYSUNKdO

onalold Anois worssiusveg owm SuNUUCoL


19 Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

 

Rep

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

Glossary (Cont’d)

DOMINATING:

EQUITY:

HARMONICITY:

LONG:

NEIGHBORING:

NEST-OF-LOWS:

1¢ Services Training Course

 

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

(or DOMINANT WAVE) Refers to that price wave
which is most visually evident in a composite wave
or in price action.

(or NEGOTIABLE EQUITY) A generic label for
securities, commodity futures contracts, etc., trad-
ed on an auction market.

(Derived from words HARMONIOUS or HAR-
MONIC.) Means that wave periods are related by
small, whole numbers.

(or BUY): To go long in an equity is to purchase it
in the expectation of selling it later at a higher
price.

(or NEIGHBORING WAVES) Refers to two
waves in a set of waves whose periods are
closest to being the same.

A time when two or more component price waves
form simultaneous troughs.

NOMINAL MODEL:(or NOMINAL CYCLIC MODEL) A list of the

PERIOD:

PHASE:

PRICE ACTION:

periods of the price waves to be expected in price
movements.

The length of time that elapses between a trough of
a price wave and the next consecutive trough of the
same wave.

A quantity which expresses the time relationship
between two price waves.

(or PRICE MOVEMENT) Refers to the fact that
equity prices change constantly as time passes.
The MOTION of prices as time goes on.

Page 42


Page 43

Glossary (Cont'd)

PROPORTION-
ALITY:

SHORT:

SUMMATION:

SYNCHRONICITY:

TROUGH:

VARIATION:

WAVE:

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

(or PROPORTIONAL TO) A relationship between
two quantities such that as one increases, the other
also increases, and by the same percentage. In
cyclic concepts, relates to the quantities AMPLI-
TUDE and PERIOD of the various waves in a
cyclic model.

(or SELL SHORT) To sell borrowed stock in the
expectation that prices will subsequently go down.
If so, a profit is made by replacing the borrowed
stock by purchase on the open market at the
reduced (later) price.

The act of SUMMING or adding.

(Derived from the words SYNCHRONOUS or
SYNCHRONIZE.) Means to occur simultaneously
in time. In cyclic theory the term refers to the
tendency of the troughs of one component wave to
occur at the same time as the troughs of other
component waves in the same composite wave.

(or WAVE TROUGH) The lowest point on a com-
ponent price wave.

Means difference from. In cyclic concepts the word
VARIATION describes how actual local wave
conditions differ from the nominal, or long-term
average, expectation.

A repetitive fluctuation in price with well defined,
measurable characteristics.

possasoy SI

“buy ‘ss34q S19PHAL C161 @ WYBAKdO.)

owns Sunnuudou

 

&


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1

HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

SELF-EXAMINATION

Page 44


Page 45

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Self-Examination

It is suggested that you go all the way through the examination a first
time without referring to the cassette or text material. In doing so, mark
answers only to the questions you are sure of; don’t guess. Leaving an
answer unmarked will flag that question for further attention on the

second pass through the exam.

After you have finished the first pass, check the answers you have
marked against the answer key, circling any that are wrong. Then go
back through the examination and refer to the text material to refresh
your memory on those questions that you answered wrong or left

unanswered.

1. The Principle of Commonality
states that:

a. The price action of common
stocks exhibits wave-like
characteristics

b. The price action of all stock
issues and commodity fu-
tures contracts have many
characteristics in common

c. Neither of these.

2. The time of occurrence of price
reversals and the extent of the sub-
sequent move are predictable to a
certain degree because price ac-
tion is made up of a combination of
specific price waves.

True False

3. In wave motion, a single swing
of prices from a low point to a high
point and back to a low point again
is called:

a. A crest

b. A cycle

c. A harmonic.

4, Wave motion in price move-
ment extends backward into past
time and forward into future time
indefinitely.

True False

5. The three descriptive quantities
of a wave are crest, trough, and
period.

True False

6. When several price waves com-
bine to produce a composite price
action, the component waves are
combined by means of:

a. Averaging

b. Addition

c. Phasing.

7. The change in amplitude of a
given price wave as time progress-
es is related to a corresponding
change in period of the same wave
through:
a. The Principle of Proportion-
ality

 

poarasay 143TH IV
“auy ‘ssang SxOpEAy EL6I @ 198

pangiyolg knomg voissiuied ynowna SunuUdon, g


 

Prot

 

Without

 

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Self-Examination (Contd)

b. The Principle of Variation
c. Neither of these.

8. The Principle of Synchronicity
assures us that all of the troughs of
each cycle of the various price
waves will coincide.

Tue False

9. The period of a wave in price ac-
tion is most readily measured
from:
a. Trough to trough of the
wave
b. A down-through-zero cross-
ing to the next down-through
zero crossing
c. A trough to the following
crest
d. Crest to crest of the wave.

10. Assume a given price move-
ment to consist of the sum of only
two waves. At the time when the
longer period wave is forming a
crest, the composite wave repre-
senting prices is:

a. Topping out

b. Depressed

c. At its lowest value.

11. Amplitude is the size of a price
wave measured from trough to

12. You can expect the wave peri-
ods in the price movement of a
stock at a given time to be those of
the nominal model.

True False

13. Individual price waves have
equally rounded troughs and
crests; and so do composite price
movements because they are the
sum of individual waves with this
characteristic.

True False

14. If two waves have equal ampli-
tudes and periods and the phase
difference between them is equal
fo their common period, the waves
are:
a. Harmoniously related
b. Not the kind found in price
movement
¢. Identical to each other
d. Neighboring components of
nominal model.

15. The three quantities that com-
pletely identify a price wave are:

a. Cycle c. Harmonicity
b. Period d. Phase
e. Amplitude.

16. One component of a composite
wave has a period of 4 days. The
next longer component is most
likely to have a period of:

a. 2 days . 5 days
b. 4 days d. 8 days
e. 12 days.

17. One component of a composite
wave has a period of 18 months.
The next longer component is most
likely to have a period of:
a. 9 months ¢. 54 months
b. 6 months d. 36 months

Page 46


Page 47

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Self-Examination (Cont'd)

e. There are no t. None of
longer waves in these.
price

18. The period of a wave is the
time required to complete two cy-
cles of that wave.

True False

19. One component of a composite
wave has a period of 32 days. The
next longer period component has
a period of 64 days. When the 64
day wave is at a trough, the 32 day-
wave is:
a. At a crest
b. At the mid-point between
trough and crest, and mov-
ing up
c. At a trough.

20. Actual price waves have peri-
ods and amplitudes that are con-
stant with the passage of time.

Tue False

21. If wave troughs are found in
price data by inspection, and suc-
cessive period sample measure-
ments are made from trough to
successive trough, such measure-
ments are not likely to be equal.

True False

22. One component of a composite
wave has a period of 21 weeks. At
the point in time where 7 weeks
have elapsed since the last trough
of this wave, the wave is pushing

the composite wave:
a. Up
b. Down
c. Sideways.

23. There is no known limit to the
number of waves that combine to
form price movements.

True False

24, The cyclic concept applies only
to auction markets in the U.S.A.
True False

25. Equity price movements and
component price waves can be
shown graphically as plots of
(on the vertical axis of
the plot) versus (on the
horizontal axis of the plot).

26. One component of a current
cyclic model is 22.4 weeks in peri-
od. The next shorter period wave
in the same cyclic model is most
likely to have a period of:

a. 67.2 weeks —c. 11.2 weeks
b. 13.0 weeks —d.. 44.8 weeks
e. 7.5 weeks.

27. Ata given time, three compon-
ent waves have values of -6.0,
+3.0, and +1.0, respectively. The
value of the composite wave is:
a. -10.0 c. $1.0
b. -2.0 d. +10.0
e. None of these

paasasay si3RY IV
“say ‘ssaag S12pBI] EL6T @ WSLUXdo)

 

=
5

 

paniaiuord 4


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

‘Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Self-Examination (Cont'd)

28. The concepts of cyclicality im-
ply that long (buy) and short (sell)
operations can be handled in the
same way.

True False

29. Suppose two component waves
combine to form a composite
wave. The amplitude of the shorter
wave by comparison with the am-
plitude of the longer wave is expec-
ted to be:

a. Smaller c. Equal

b. Larger d.No rela-

tionship expected.

30. There are no waves in price
movement with periods  signifi-
cantly shorter than 5 days

True False

Page 48


Page 49

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Self-Examination Answers

1

2.

10.

W.

12.

13.

14.

15.

b.

True

True

False

Crest

False

False

16.
Ww.
18.

19.

2u.

2.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

False

False
True
a.
True

False

Price, Time

False

False

qwsutdoy

 

poasasay SUP ITV
“Duy ss94g S9PEAL, EL

 

noun Bu

 

penraiuoig Ai


 

é
5

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1

HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

CASSETTE SCRIPT


 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Introduction — Cyclic Concepts

This is the introduction to Cyclitec
Services Training Course lesson
number one, entitled How Price
Action Works.

The objective of this section is to
introduce you to the training
course and fo a completely new
concept of trading and investing.

The teaching method used will
consist of presentation of new prin-
ciples and ideas by means of taped
narration. At the appropriate
times you will be referred to text
and illustrations where these prin-
ciples and ideas will be summar-
ized and demonstrated.

The proven and effective teaching
technique of covering a concept
broadly first, then returning to fill
in information gaps with detail is
used. For maximum benefit, you
should not expect to have all the
questions in your mind answered
as you go along. Try to accept the
material as presented in the expec:
tation that such questions will be
answered at the appropriate time.

 

The methods taught in the course
are unique in the history of fi-
nance and investing. For the first
time you will be taught not to buy
or sell negotiable equities such as
stocks, bonds, or commodities with-
out first predicting the outcome of
the transaction. Your predictions
will not always result in a profit-

able transaction, but it is not nec-
essary to be 100 percent right in
order to profit overall.

Now we must introduce you to the
basics of a set of cyclic concepts:

If you look at a book of charts of
stock prices, the strongest impres-
sion gained will be one of great dif-
ferences between issues. Each
chart, representing past price
movements of one stock, will ap-
pear to differ greatly from all
others. Our very first task is to
dispel at least part of this illusion
for you.

It is an amazing but true fact that
in spite of obvious visual differ-
ences, the charts of all stocks and
all commodities have many char-
acteristics in common. These com-
mon traits, unknown until recent-
ly, are the basis of the predic-
tive methods taught in this course.

The first of these common eleme-
ments is to be found in the fact that
all price movements consist of a
combination of a specific kind and
number of price waves .

Without defining further, for the
moment, what is meant by

waves , please consider the rath-
er astounding meaning of the last
several statements.

We have said that all price move-
ments of all forms of negotiable

jsuskdoy

pansasay su ITV
-ouy ‘ssa1g SI9PEAL CLOT O18

poviaiworg ADVIS vorssiwed mou SuNULdeL


ly Prohibited

 

é
:

 

sights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Introduction — Cyclic Concepts (Cont'd)

equities have much in common—
quite contrary to visual experi-
ence. We have further said that the
first such common consideration is
that all such price movements con-
sist of a combination of the same
number and kinds of simple wave
motions.

Such statements are at total vari-
ance wih the past experience and
beliefs of most people who have
had experience with the equity
auction markets. One of the major
objectives of the course is to pro-
vide you with the opportunity to
prove for yourself that such unex-
pected observations are, indeed,
fact.

The word wave has been intro-
duced, but has not yet been
defined. A thorough understanding
of the idea of a wave is essential
since it is the characteristics of
waves that provide the potential
for price motion prediction.

The surface of the ocean moves in
waves. The rhythmical motions of
a pendulum constitute wave move-
ment. Whipping one end of a rope
while the other end remains fixed
produces ripples or waves along
the length of the rope. In each
case, physical material moves
from one place to another ina very
specific manner as time progress-
es, resulting in what is thought of
as a wave.

If we now think of stock or com-
modity prices in motion instead of
physical material, the analogy is
very close. A single wave of price
movement has a shape very like
the examples mentioned. Once this
concept is understood, the idea of
combining such waves to form
actual price movements of equities
is far easier to grasp.

You should stop your tape unit now
and turn to page one of the lesson
number one text where the idea of
a single price wave is illustrated
by example.

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUING

A Cyclic Trade

You have now been introduced in a
very simple way to the cyclic
concept of equity price move-
ments. Most of the pieces of the
puzzle are still missing in your
mind—but these will be supplied as
we go along.

One very important consideration
can be put in the form of a
question:

Can these concepts really provide
you with the ability to successfully
trade or invest in the stock and
commodity markets?

The proof of the pudding is in the

Page 52


Page 53

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script A Cyclic Trade (Cont'd)

eating as the saying goes, and you
must complete the course and ap-
ply the principles for yourself be-
fore this question will be answered
with certainty.

However, the potential power of
the methods available for making
use of the concept can be demon-
strated to you at this point even
though understanding of how
things are done must come later.
To this end, a trading situation has
been analyzed using the techniques
taught in the course, and the end
product has been illustrated for
you in the accompanying text ma-
terial. In a lesson to follow, you
yourself will perform as an exer-
cise, the very same analysis that
leads to the conclusions you are
about to study now.

Please stop your tape unit at this
point and turn to the section titled
A Cyclic Trade in the lesson num-
ber one text.

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUING

The Wave

You have now seen an example of
how the concept of cyclicality can
be applied to set up a trade. One of
the course objectives is to bring
you to the point where you can
handle a complete analysis such as
this for yourself with ease and con-
fidence.

To do so, you must learn the char-
acteristics of the cyclic phenom-
ena, and become familiar with a
certain amount of vocabulary as-
sociated with wave concepts. We
will start with the wave itself.

 

In figure 1-1, which you should
return to now while the tape con-
tinues, two cycles of a typical
single price wave are illustrated.
The caption under this figure indi-
cates that once such a wave is
identified, its price value can
be determined over all time, both
past and future. Now we must ask
ourselves what is meant by identi-
fication of a wave.

We can begin by noting that each
cycle of a wave moves from a
fixed negative trough value (such
as at point A in figure 1-1) to a
fixed positive crest value (such as
at point B in figure 1-1) and then
back to another trough (such as at
point C). In this figure the peak
positive and negative values shown
are +10 and -10 price units respec-
tively. And we can see that the
wave would be altered in only one
small sense if it had been shown
with trough and crest values of -6
and +6 price units, or -2 and +2
price units or any other values we
might choose.

In each case, the price value dif-
ference between trough and crest
is clearly twice either the trough

poaassy sydney

‘uy “ssa4q SIOPHLY ELI @ IYBIAKdO-)

 

vorssiuzeg noun Ou

 

ponraiwoig An


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script The Wave (Cont'd)

or crest value alone. In the case of
this figure, it is 2 times 10, or 20
price units. This price difference
between trough and crest is called
the amplitude of the wave.

Let us repeat this simple defin-
ition:

The price difference between a
wave trough and crest is called the
amplitude of the wave.

Now we can begin to see how
several varieties of the same wave
shape can exist; and even more
important, we've taken the first
step toward understanding what is
meant by identifying a wave.

As it happens, it only takes know-
ledge of three such quantities to
completely and uniquely identify a
given wave, permitting determina-
tion of wave values for all values
of time,

The second wave quantity we must
know about is called the wave
period. Period is the length of time
between any two successive wave
troughs (such as the time elapsed
between points A and C in figure
1-1).

Finally, two waves may have iden-
tical amplitudes and periods and
may still differ in one more re-
spect. One wave may be shifted in
time so as not to coincide with the

other. The term which describes
such time shift between two waves
is phase.

Thus, if two waves have identical
amplitude, period, and phase, it
can be said that they are identical-
ly the same wave. But if any one of
the three descriptive wave quanti-
ties differs, then we are discussing
two distinct and different waves. It
is desirable to actually see the
effect of amplitude, period, and
phase in wave motion; so please
stop your tape unit now and turn to
the section titled The Factors and
Principles Involved: The Wave in
the lesson number one text for
examples and exercises.

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUING

Summation

The Principle of Cyclicality tells us
that when we observe the appar-
ently aimless meanderings of
prices of stocks and commodities
all is not as it seems. Far from
being aimless, the price action of
each stock or commodity is com.
posed of a combination of a num-
ber of price waves of the sort you
are now somewhat familiar with.

 

What we must do now is more
clearly examine what the word
combination signifies in the state-
ment of this very basic principle.

Page $4


Page 55

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Summation (Cont'd)

For example, simple, single price
waves such as those studied so far
might be found to combine in a
multiplicative fashion. If so, the
value of each of two or more waves
at any given time would then be
multiplied together in order to ar-
rive at the desired composite, or
combined, wave value for that
time. Literally, an infinite number
of ways in which these waves could
combine can be found.

Even worse, suppose that waves in
one issue or futures contract were
found to combine in one way while
those in other issues or contracts
combine in another. If this were
true, then it would be a hopeless
fask to devise universally useful
methods for predicting future
price movements.

Fortunately, it is a true fact that
price waves combine in the sim-
plest possible way; namely, by
addition. And it is also true that
they combine in this same manner
for all negotiable equities of any
type.

Thus we have just stated a second
element of price movement that
falls under the Principle of Com-
monality. We now know of two
features that all equity price
movements have in common.
First, they all consist of a combin-
ation of waves. Second, the waves

of all contracts of all commodities,
all issues of all stocks, rights, war-
rants, averages, etc., all combine
in the same manner; that is, by
addition, or summation. This truth
is expressed as the Principle of
Summation.

To repeat: The Principle of Sum
mation states that equity price
waves always combine to form
total price movement by simple
addition.

Now we can go further to discuss
just what is meant by the summa-
tion, or addition, of simple waves.

We know that these waves always
have the same general shape, but
can differ from one another in one
or more of three ways, by having
differing amplitudes, periods, or
phases. But we also know that if
these three quantities are known
for two waves we can find the
value of each wave (in price units)
for all possible times. Since waves
combine by addition, this means
that the shape of the composite of
two or more such waves is also
obtainable for all times, including
the future.

 

 

All of this means that the principles
of Cyclicality and Summation
have provided us a possible basis
for at least limited prediction of
future price movements. This is

poasasoy SiR HV
“aur ‘ssaug s19pea] ¢L61 @ WWSUKdO>

laueg inouwan SunuLdon

   


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

hts Reserved

 

z

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Summation (Cont'd)

exciting, for some predictive capa-
bility, however imperfect, is exact-
ly what is needed in order to trade
or to invest successfully.

Let us then proceed to make clear
exactly what process is involved in
combining waves by summation.

To sum, or to add, two such waves
it is only necessary to determine
the value of each at any one time
and then add these values together
to get the value of the combined
waves at that same time. If we do
this for all time values of interest,
then we can plot, or draw, the
resulting total shape.

Furthermore, we could similarly
add a third wave into the compos-
ite of the first two and this process
could be continued indefinitely.

You should have the experience of
actually performing such wave ad-
dition for yourself—so please stop
your tape unit now and turn to the
section titled Summation in the
lesson number one text for exam-
ples and exercises.

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUING

Waves in Price Action
You have been told that waves

exist in price action and that
simple waves combine by addition.

Also, you have had a brief expo-
sure to working with such waves—
but as idealized components, not
yet as they occur in actual price
action.

For this reason we take a small
diversion at this point to give you
your first glimpse of wave action
in actual price movements.

As described previously, the na-
ture of wave action is the same for
all types of negotiable equities.
This being true for individual is-
sues, it follows that it should also
be true for averages of individual
issues as well.

This is indeed the case and is the
basis for the choice of the Dow
Jones Industrial Average for your
first exposure to waves in prices.

You should keep in mind that the
principles of Cyclicality and Sum-
mation state that price movements
consist of a large number of simple
waves added together. When
waves are combined in this way,
very complex patterns can be
formed as the composite in which
it is almost impossible to detect
the individual simple waves visual-
ly. Evidence of individual waves
can be seen directly in price move-
ment under certain circumstances,
but this is only possible because of
elements of commonality that
have not been discussed as yet.

Page 56


 

cycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Waves in Price Action (Cont'd)

Without turning off your tape unit,
turn now to figure 1-13 in the lesson
number one text.

You will find this figure to be a
monthly high-low bar-chart of the
Dow Jones Industrial Average
from May 1949 to January 1969.
This plot was chosen for your first
exposure to actual waves in prices
because of the clarity and persis-
tence of the wave demonstrated.

 

Recognition is aided in this case by
the addition of the two dotted lines
on the chart, between which prices
are clearly seen to fluctuate in
wave-like motion with a period of
51 to 53 months. Only 4 cycles of
this wave are shown, but the same
wave is to be found continuously
throughout all of recorded market
data.

This is a particularly long wave
(though not the longest present)
and is the one responsible for the
so-called “bull” and ‘bear’ mai
kets so often referred to by finan
al commentators. It is an interest-
ing fact that after each new cycle
of this wave starts at a trough, or
after each cycle has topped out at
a crest, a nearly infinite variety of
fundamental reasons are always
cited by all of the financial experts
to account for the existence of the
resulting up or down markets. You
should, at this point, be asking

  

yourself a question:

If the fundamental factors quoted are
responsible for these wave-like
motions in price, do these funda-
mental things always come along on
a regular schedule so as to cause the
resulting price movements to always
form troughs four and one-third
years apart?

There is an interesting example of
this fallacious tie-in of fundamen-
fals. If Federal Reserve activities
are superimposed on a plot of the
Dow Jones Industrial Averages, it
will be found that the activities
designed to dampen the economy
always occur clustered about the
wave crests shown in figure 1-13.
Similarly, such activities intended
to stimulate the economy always
cluster closely about the wave
troughs shown. The natural conclu-
sion to be drawn is that these
Federal activities are effective in
doing what they were intended to
do and are at least partially re-
sponsible for the up and down
price movements shown.

 

The only problem with this conclu-
sion is that these same wave-like
movements in price with the same
wave periods have been present in
prices since market data was first
recorded—and existed with exact-
ly the same characteristics long
before any of these Federal Re-
serve activities came into being!

paaaasoy s9y3PE ITV

“uy saa S49P BAL EL6T @ BEKO.)

 

 

z


2
E
é
2

 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Waves in Price Action (Cont'd)

So, it seems once again that all is
not as it might seem on the surface
in this matter of price movements.

Incidentally, since this figure was
prepared, the next cycle of this
wave has been completed with the
trough formed in May, 1970. The
period of this last sample of this
wave was 44 months instead of the
51 to 53 months for previous cycles
shown. This is typical of wave
action in prices; and the cause of
such irregularities and how to
prevent them from being a prob-
lem in transaction timing will be
studied in depth in later lessons.

Please stop your tape unit now and
turn to the section titled Waves in
Price Actionin the lesson number
one text.

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUING

Harmonicity,Synchronicity and
Amplitude-Period Relationships

Now we must turn to new topics.
Please refer back to figure 1-9 of
the lesson number one text.

So far you have learned of two of
the elements referred to by the
Principle of Commonality and
have experienced the process of
summing simple waves to produce
a composite wave. You have, in

effect, been putting waves togeth-
er in the way they combine to pro-
duce price movements.

This is just the reverse of what you
must do in using cyclic concepts to
analyze a stock or commodity
price movement preparatory to a
trade or investment. Starting with
the complicated composite wave
that is price movement, the prob-
lem is to extract from this the
identifying elements of the waves
of which it is composed.

This is, in general, a much more
difficult task than combining the
waves to form the composite. In
fact, the task would be nearly
impossible if there were no addi-
tional elements of commonality to
simplify the situation. Fortunately
for our purpose, such additional
elements do exist.

Referring to figure 1-9, there are
several notable facts about the
three simple waves shown:

First, note the horizontal (or time)
position of the two troughs shown
for the lower wave. Then note that
each of the two other waves shown
also has a trough at these same
two points.

This did not happen by accident.
The waves shown were construc.
ted so as to represent two elements

Page 58


Page 59

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Harmonicity, Synchronicity, and Amplitude-Period

Relationships (Cont'd)

of commonality that you have not,
as yet, been exposed to. Let us deal
with these one at a time.

Compare the bottom and middle
waves of figure 1-9. You will notice
that the bottom wave has a period
of 16 time units, and the middle
wave has a period of 8 time units.
In other words, the bottom wave
has a period that is just twice as
Jong as the period of the middle
wave.

Now look at the top wave of this
figure. This is shown with a period
of 4 time units. Thus, the middle
wave witha period of 8 time units
is just twice as long as the top
wave.

Let’s go over this once again. As
shown in figure 1-9, the ratio of the
periods of any two neighboring
component waves is the whole
number two. By “neighboring”
we mean the two waves closest to
each other in period.

This curious fact is common to the
waves of all issues of all stocks and
all contracts of all commodities
and the third element of com-
monality you are now aware of.

 

When this kind of a relationship
exists between wave periods, such
waves are said to be ‘“’harmonical-
ly related”, As a result, this com-

mon element in price waves is
referred to as the Principle of
Harmonicity.

We will now restate this important

principle in its most general terms:

The periods of neighboring waves
in price action tend to be related
by a small whole number, usually
two. This statement is referred to
as the Principle of Harmonicity
and is an element of the Principle
of Commonality.

Let us think a moment about what
this means in practice. Suppose
you knew by one means or another
that a price wave existed with a
period of 20 weeks. Then the Prin.
ciple of Harmonicity would lead
you to suspect that the next longer
wave would have a period of twice
this, or 40 weeks.

Further, you would expect the next
longer wave yet to have a period of
twice this, or 80 weeks.

In both cases, you would be cor-
rect. All price movements over all
of recorded market history show
waves of nearly these periods. The
40 week one is very nearly 9
months in period, and 80 weeks is
very nearly 18 months in period, so
these two important waves are
generally spoken of as the 9-month
and 18-month waves respectively.

wBtssdo

poasosoy i437 ITV
<u S504 S19PHAL E161 O

1g vorssjwiag noun Sunuideu

 

 

loud

 


ly Prohibited

 

€
=

 

Rep

Copyright © 1973 Traders Pres, Ine.
° All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Harmonicity, Synchronicity, and Amplitude-Period

Relationships (Cont'd)

Similarly, moving from the 20-
week wave to the next shorter one,
the Principle of Harmonicity
would lead one to expect a period
of 10 weeks. Once again, the expec-
tation would be justified. You will
be introduced shortly to the re-
maining waves that you will be
finding and dealing with in price
movement. For now the important
point is that this small whole num-
ber relationship between wave per-
iods strongly tends to exist, and
this fact makes analysis of poten-
tial trading situations very much
easier than it would otherwise be.

Now let us return to the observa-
tion that in figure 1-9 each time
we note a trough in the lower, or
longest period,wave of the figure,
we also note a trough at the same
time in each of the two shorter
waves shown. The Principle of
Harmonicity partially explains
this fact. We can see that if any
one wave period is related to an-
other by any whole number, and if
any one trough of the two waves is
made to coincide, then repetitions
of such trough synchronizations
will always occur. Both conditions
are required for the waves to ap-
pear as they do in this figure.

In the word ‘synchronization’ we
have found the key to the next
needed element of commonality.
The component waves of price
movement show a remarkable ten-

dency to be synchronized with
each other at wave troughs just as
you see them in figure 1-9. No one
knows why this should be so, any
more than we know why such
waves combine by addition, or why
wave periods tend to be harmonic-
ally related. But since these things
do happen, we plan to take full
advantage of them in planning our
trades.

This new fact is another element of
commonality, and once again we
will state it in the form of a
principle.

Waves in price action strongly
tend to be so phased as to cause
simultaneous troughs whenever
possible. This fact is referred to as
the Principle of Synchronicity.

It is time now to turn your tape
unit off and refer to the section
titled Harmonicity and Synchroni-
city in the lesson number one text
for examples and illustrations,

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

Proportionality and Nominality

In the last recording, you were
introduced to two new elements of
commonality which you will later
find invaluable in performing cyc-
lic analysis. These were Harmon-
icity and Synchronicity.

 

In this recording we will describe

Page 60


Page 61

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Proportionality and Nominality (Cont'd)

two more such elements of com-
monality that are equally useful.

Without turning off your tape unit,
please turn to figure 1-15 in your
lesson number one text.

In this figure, as in all of the
previous ones that have shown
simple waves, the next element of
commonality has been repre-
sented although attention has not
been drawn to it as yet.

Notice that wave A is drawn with
an amplitude greater than that of
wave B, and the amplitude of wave
B is similarly greater than that of
C. Again, this was not by accident.

The waves in price action strongly
tend to exhibit larger amplitudes
for the longer period waves. In
fact, as a rough rule of thumb,
when period doubles, amplitude
doubles also. This was the rule
used in figure 1-15. The period of B
is shown as twice that of C, and the
amplitude of B is correspondingly
twice that of C. The same relation-
ships are shown for waves A and
B.

As customary, we will phrase this
element of commonality as a prin-
ciple for ready reference.

Waves in price action strongly
fend to have amplitudes propor-
tional to periods. This means that

if one wave has twice the period of
another, the amplitude of the first
is likely to be nearly twice that of
the second. This fact is referred to
as the Principleof Proportionality.

One of the most immediate impli-
cations of this principle is that it is
the longer waves that cause the
larger price moves. In practice,
this principle is invaluable in aid-
ing the process of separating the
very complex movements of price
into the simple waves of which
they are composed.

Also, in the last recording, several
wave periods were discussed in
connection with the Principle of
Harmonicity. Specifically mention-
ed were an 18-month wave, a 9
month one, a wave of 20 weeks,
and one of 10 weeks. In accordance
with this principle, this series
could be continued by expecting a
wave of one half of 10 weeks, or 5
weeks, and so on down to periods
of less than an hour. No one knows
what the shortest wave that is har-
monically related to those dis-
cussed may be, because the ability
to detect these very short waves in
price action diminishes rapidly as
the wave period becomes shorter
than about 5 days. This is because
trading in the auction markets is
not continuous. But periods of the
order of 50 minutes have been
found and used successfully in
timing trades.

poasasay siyBn IV

“Duy “ssa4q Ss9PEAL CL6T @ WYBUAdOD

 


Reprinting Without Permission Strietly Prohibited

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Proportionality and Nominality (Cont'd)

We note a curious fact about this
series of wave periods. We started
the series by assuming that a wave
with a period of about 20 weeks
existed in price movement. We
might just as well have started
with a 30-week wave, which would
have resulted in a very different
series.

Once more, we have found an
attention.arresting situation. The
waves in price motion strongly
tend to have periods more closely
related to the series based on 20
weeks than to series based on
other possible numbers. When we
note things of this nature we are
alerted to the fact that another
element of commonality is at
work. Describing this as a princi-
ple results in the following:

 

There is a strong tendency for the
waves in price movement to ad-
here to a specific, nominal set of
harmonically related wave peri-
ods. This fact, and the specific set
of periods involved, are referred
toas the Principle of Nominality.

In a moment, you will see a table
of these nominal wave periods. But
first, a unique situation must be
explained.

The Principle of Harmonicity tells
us that neighboring wave periods
are related by a small, whole

number, usually two. We notice
that the principle does not pre-
clude the possibility of the small
whole number being, for example,
three. Now, recall the monthly plot
of the Dow-Jones Industrial Aver-
age of figure 1-13. Here it was
noted that a wave-like movement
with period ranging from 51 to 53
months was clearly visible. The
nominal equivalent of this period is
54 months, which is exactly three
times the period of the 18-month
wave. It is a remarkable fact that,
in the entire table of nominal per-
iods for the Principle of Nominal-
ity, this is the only instance where
a factor of three is involved, or
indeeed, where any factor of other
than two occurs.

 

Now, please turn off your tape unit
and turn to the section titled Pro-
portionality and Nominality in
your lesson number one text.

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUING

Variation

At this point, a brief recapitulation
is needed before your introduction
to the last basic principle of the
Cyclic Concept of equity price
action.

The Principle of Commonality
states that the price movements of

Page 62


Page 63

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Variation (Cont'd)

all equities have elements in com-
mon.

The Principle of Cyclicality tells us
that one of these common elements
is the fact that price movements
consist of a combination of a num-
ber of waves.

The Principle of Summation as-
sures us that these waves are com-
bined by simple addition.

The Principle of Harmonicity says
these waves have periods which
are related by small, whole num-
bers.

The Principle of Synchronicity
states that these harmonious
waves tend to have their troughs
synchronized.

The Principle of Proportionality
asserts that waves with longer
periods have larger amplitudes.

Finally, the Principle of Nominal-
ity defines which particular set of
harmonically related waves ap-
pears in price movements.

These are completely general prin-
ciples, applying equally to all equi-
ties at all times in accordance with
the Principle of Commonality.

You have seen these principles
demonstrated using simple waves,
and briefly, in price action itself.

To present these concepts with
maximum clarity, ideal cases
have been chosen for illustration.
The real situation in price move-
ments is not this straightforward.
Nevertheless, and this is import.
ant, all that you have learned so
far represents the real situation
well enough so that each principle
stated serves as an important
guide as to what is happening in
price action. Even more import.
ant, methods and techniques de-
rived from these principles lead to
the ability to evaluate risk prior to
entering a trading and investing
situation, as illustrated in figure
1-3.

The differences between real price
movements and movements adher-
ing exactly to the principles stated
so far are lumped under the final
basic principle of the cyclic con-
cept. Appropriately, this principle
is referred to as the Principle of
Variation.

This subject is a study all by itself.
Our intent in this lesson is to intro-
duce you to variation, and cover
just the several most important
considerations involved. Other as-
pects of variation will be intro-
duced at the appropriate times
later in the course.

The word variation means differ-
ences with respect to something.
The first type of variation to be

ponsasou SBR TY
-auy ‘sang S19p ta] €L61 © 14EKEOD

 

=
3

 

pewaqoid Ai


Pronibited

 

Ing Without Pe

 

1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

Copyright

 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Variation (Contd)

discussed really isn’t a true varia-
tion at all, but the effect on your
analysis results is the same as if it
were. Without turning off your
tape unit, turn to figure 1-9 of the
lesson number one text.

Here you completed the process of
summing three waves to form a
composite wave. You know exactly
what went into the composite wave
because you put it there yourself.

Now, imagine the composite wave,
as simple as this one is, being
actual price movement. Referring

only to the composite wave, try to
locate the troughs of the shortest
component wave in it, without
looking at the component wave
itself. As you can see, at least
three such troughs are not visually
determinable with accuracy.

Remember, too, that the example
of this figure includes only three
component waves. The problem is
considerably more complicated in
actual price movements because
they contain at least the eleven
waves of the nominal model, and,
in fact, a number that are not
included in the nominal model.

Thus, the process of identifying
component wave troughs in the
complex price patterns of equities
is imperfect, and can lead to varia-
tion in the estimate of periods of
these waves even if the waves

themselves are of constant period.

The next type of variation to be
discussed is real, and unlike the
previous example, has nothing to
do with the difficulties of analysis
of price action.

So far, the waves you have been
introduced to have had constant
amplitude and period. By this, we
mean that each successive cycle
of the wave exhibits the same
amplitude and period over and
over again.

In actual price movements, things
are not this simple. Both ampli-
tude and period of the component
waves vary slowly as time passes.
An example is illustrated in the
text—and this type of variation
will be discussed more thoroughly
there.

 

The last type of variation to be
considered now, constitutes a vari-
ation from commonality itself.

The nominal model is to be consid-
ered as an underlying average of
the wave periods to be expected in
all price movements. This defin-
ition, which is implied in the choice
of the word nominal, permits vari-
ation from the nominal model from
time to time, and from issue to
issue at any given time.

The practical result of this is that a

Page 64


CyeliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 1
HOW PRICE ACTION WORKS

Cassette Script Variation (Cont'd)

cyclic, or wave, model for any one
issue at a given time may be
somewhat different from the wave
model for another issue at that
same time, although wave period
averages for each will adhere
closely to the nominal over longer
periods of time.

The Principle of Variation is re-
sponsible for the degree of imper-
fection which must be expected in
using cyclic concepts for trading
and investing. The methods de-
vised for use of these concepts
must take variation into account
sufficiently well to provide more
and larger gains than losses if the
methods are to be profitable.

Please turn off your tape unit now
and return to the lesson number
one text at the section titled
Variation.

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

Conclusion

You have reached the end of the
formal presentation of material for
lesson number one of the Cyclitec
Services Training Course.

Here, you have learned of the exis-
tence of a set of concepts with
price movement predictive impli-
cations. As yet, you have not been

shown a way to convert these ideas
into decision-aiding information.
For this purpose special manipula-
tions and processes, which we will
call tools, have been developed.
These will be introduced to you
starting with lesson number two.

In lesson number two you will be
shown how to prove whether or not
a given wave trough or crest has
been passed; how to estimate
where prices will go on a given
move before the fact; and how to
estimate, during a contemplated
transaction, what the underlying
trend of prices is likely to be in the
future.

To accomplish these objectives, it
is most important that the basic
concepts of lesson number one be
learned well. To assist you in this,
you will find the following items in
the accompanying text: a sum-
mary of the information contained
in the lesson; a glossary of unusual
words and terms used; a self-
examination with answer key pro-
vided; and a transcript of the
taped material presented.

You should turn your tape unit off
now and proceed to the summary
material and self-examination in
the lesson number one text.

END OF LESSON NUMBER
ONE CASSETTE SCRIPT

2
2
ze
gs
8

3
fi
as
i
F

 


 

 

 

 

J... Hurst
Cycles Course

Lesson 2:
From Cyclic Concepts
to Trading Decisions

fel?
Se

7 ‘TRADERS PRESS, INC?
PO Box 6206
Greenville, SC 29606

  

 

Serving Traders Since 1975

 

 

 

 


CycliTec Services Training Course

Lesson No. 2

From Cyclic Concepts
to
Trading Decisions

Please Install the Lesson No. 2 Cassette
In Your Tape Unit — And Turn The Unit On.


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘Al Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

SECTION 1 Review and Introduction
SECTION 2 Taking the Uncertainty Out of Trend.
SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line..... ceceee ee ee ees 7
SECTION 4 Valid Trend Line Use..............

 

  

   
  

SECTION 5 FLD's — The Price Move Predictors
SECTION 6 How FLD’s Are Related to Waves...... fee
SECTION 7 How FLD's Relate to Price Movement.............-+ 36
SECTION 8 More Infomation from Multiple FLD’s............... 4a
SECTION 9 Action Signals, Stop-Loss Levels, and Potential-

Risk Ratios.....
SECTION 10 A Cyclic Trade Re-Visited.
Summary.
Glossary.
Self-Examination....... 0.02.00 ccc eeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeee ees 67

Self-Examination Answers.
Cassette Script

 

 

Paget


Page il

CyellTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

  
  

 

   

 
  
  
 

 

 

 
  

Figure Page
2-1 The Meaning of Trend..........6-.0.0:0eee eee eeeeeee eee ee es 5
2-2 Results for the Exercise of Figure 2-1 .. 6
2-3 Valid Downtrend Line 12
2-4 Exercise in Using Valid Trend Lines with Ideal Waves
2-5 Results for Exercise of Figure 2-4
2-6 Exercise in Using Valid Trend Lines with Actual Price Data
2-7 Results for Exercise of Figure 2-6
2-8 Invalid Trend Lines for the Exercise of Figure 2-6 .
2-9 Valid Downtrend Line Break ...
2-10 Exercise in Valid Trend Line Applications .
2-11 Results for Exercise of Figure 2-10....
2-12 Example of 9.2 Week FLD
2-13 Exercise in Drawing FLD's from a Cyclic Model 29
2-14 Results for Exercise of Figure 2-13..... 30
2-15 Effects of One-Half Period Phase Difference. 33
2-16 Single Wave FLD ... beeen - 34
217 Exercise in Use of FLD's with Price Movement ..........-..-+ 40
248 Results for Exercise of Figure 2-17 and

Continuation of Exercise ......... 666.066 cece eee eee eee ee 4t
249 Results for Exercise of Figure 2- 18 and

Continuation of Exercise ........... 6.60.0 eee eee ee ee se 42
2-20 Results for Exercise of Figure 2-19 and

Continuation of Exercise ..
2-21 Multiple FLD Patterns .
2-22 Potential-Risk Ratios

 

poasasoy Sys TV
“uy ‘ss2ug S19PEAL CL61 @ UAC)

onaiuord Knows volssiueg inoulim SUNULAeE e@


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Lights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1
al

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 1 Review and Introduction

© In lesson number one, a set of principles was defined. These principles

are collectively known as the Cyclic Concept. They are repeated here by
way of review because they are so basic to everything else to be learned.

1. The Principle of Commonality
All negotiable equity price movements have much in common, des-
pite the fact that charts of individual issues look strikingly different.

2. The Principle of Cyclicality
One of the elements that all price movements have in common is that
the price change in each equity is made up of a combination of a
number of price waves.

3. The Principle of Summation
Price waves always combine by simple addition to form total price
movement.

4. The Principle of Harmonicity
Component price waves are related in such a way that each wave
period tends to be a small, whole number multiple of the next shorter
period.

5. The Principle of Synchronicity
Component price waves strongly tend to have their troughs occur in
unison.

6. The Principle of Proportionality
Waves in price action have amplitudes that increase in proportion
to increasing periods.

7. The Principle of Nominality
The harmonically related periods of price action consist of a par-
ticular set of periods (out of all the sets that might have been involv-
ed).

8. The Principle of Variation
Actual price waves can vary in several respects from the ideal.

* A current cyclic model is a table of the periods and phases of the waves

Page 1


Page 2

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 1 Review and Introduction (Cont'd)

found to be responsible for the price change of a given equity at a given
time.

© The various techniques for determining the most probable future course
of price movements are all applied in terms of the current cyclic model
for the particular stock issue or commodity futures contract of interest.

© The methods of generating a current cyclic model require considerable
knowledge of, and familiarity with, cyclic concepts. These methods will
be studied in lesson number three.

© Inthis lesson number two, the correct current cyclic models needed for
the various examples will be provided for you.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

poaiesay sR TV

“Duy ‘s894q S32PE4] E61 @ WBUAdO.D

 

1g vojssiuog mourm Bu

 


Prohibited

 

Reprinting Without Permission Sti

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 2 Taking the Uncertainty Out of Trend

© The principles of Cyclicality and Summation say that all price move-
ment consists of the sum of price waves.

© The future value of individual component waves can be predicted to a
degree; therefore, if price movement can be separated into the com-
ponent waves of which it is composed, a measure of prediction of price
movement itself is implied — within the limitations imposed by the
Principle of Variation

© Asa result, one of the necessary objectives of the course is to learn how
to separate price movement into its component waves.

* Because no one method for extracting component waves is always com-
pletely effective in all situations, a number of different methods are
needed. A basic first step along this line is to use cyclic concepts to
define trend in such a way that it is much more useful than before.

* A particular trend is associated with each wave in a current cyclic
model by the following definition:

The trend underlying a given price wave is the sum of all waves
longer than that wave.

© Trend is always spoken of as associated with a given wave; it has no
real meaning without this association. For example, in the nominal
model we may speak of the trend underlying the 10-day wave, or we may
speak of the trend underlying the 40-day wave, etc.

‘* Turn now to figure 2-1. Three ideal price waves are shown here at A, B,
and C. At D an upward sloping straight line is shown, which can be
considered to be an estimate of the sum of all waves longer than the
wave at C.

* Using the summation techniques learned in lesson number one, draw in
and label the following in the same space used for D:

1. The trend underlying wave C (label this T<)

2. The trend underlying wave B (label this T,)

Page 3


Page 4 CycliTec Services

 

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 2 Taking the Uncertainty Out of Trend (Cont'd)
3. The trend underlying wave A (label this T,)

4, The composite wave consisting of the sum of waves A, B, C,
and the straight line D (label this Composite Wave).

* Check your results against figure 2-2. Notice, for the three different
trends drawn, how one or more may be down at the same time that the
others are up.

* When you have finished with figures 2-1 and 2-2,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

poasasoy SBRILLY
“aay ‘ssaug s19p eA, ¢L61 @ BEd

 

now

 

1 vores un,

 


Reprinting Without Permission Sttletly Prohibited S

ights Reserved

 

=

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 2 Taking the Uncertainty Out of Trend (Cont'd)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Figure 2-1

The Meaning of Trend
Note: In order to provide a clearer separation between the various
composite waves that will be produced in this exercise, the shorter waves
A and B have been given larger amplitudes than they would have under
strict adherence to the Principle of Proportionality.

 


CycliTec Services Training Course Page &

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 2 Taking the Uncertainty Out of Trend (Cont'd)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Al Rights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Figure 2-2
Results for the Exercise of Figure 2-1


3

 

 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line

* A valid uptrend line is a line drawn on a price-bar chart from the price
lows associated with identified wave troughs.

A valid downtrend line is a line drawn on a price-bar chart from the price
highs associated with identified wave crests.

* The rules for construction of valid trend lines are:

1. A valid trend line is drawn connecting two consecutive price lows
(or highs) associated with identified wave troughs (or crests).

2. A valid trend line is drawn so as not to cut through, or intercept,
price bars on a chart.

3. A valid downtrend line must not be drawn from price highs be-
tween which there is a trough of a wave longer than the wave on
which the valid downtrend line is based.

‘© Rule number 3 applies only in the case of a valid downtrend line; it does
not apply for a valid uptrend line.

© Figure 2-3 illustrates a valid downtrend line and the rules for
its construction.

1. The two waves, A and B, have been summed with the curve C to
form the composite wave D — in the manner learned in lesson
number one.

Note: With your new knowledge of the nature of trend, what does
the curve C represent in this case?

2. At D, a downtrend line has been drawn. Let us test this trend line
to see if it qualifies as a valid downtrend line:

a. Rule one says a valid downtrend line must be drawn from
price highs corresponding to consecutive crests of an identi-
fied price wave.

To see if this is so in this case, follow the dashed lines from
the crests of wave B to the two peaks in the composite wave

Page 7


Page 8

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line (Cont'd)

D across which the downtrend line is drawn. It is seen that the
composite wave highs near the dashed lines were caused by
wave crests; and further, by two consecutive wave B crests

Thus the first rule for a valid trend line is found to be
satisfied

b. Rule two does not apply in this case because we are dealing
with a smooth composite wave rather than the interrupted ver-
tical bars of a price chart.

c. Rule three states that a valid downtrend line must not be drawn
from price highs between which there is a trough of a wave longer
than the wave on which the valid downtrend line is based.

The wave on which this trend line is based is wave B (because
it is the price highs associated with the crests of this wave that
define the trend line).

We must check to see that the next longer wave (than B) does
not have a trough between the two composite wave highs near the
dashed lines of the figure. This next longer wave, in this case, is
wave A; and inspection shows that it ha8 a crest in this posi-
tion—but certainly no trough.

Thus the third rule for a valid downtrend is found to be satisfied.

d. Because the downtrend line shown has successfully passed these
three tests, we can conclude that it is a valid downtrend line.

* To be sure you understand the meaning and use of the valid trend line
rules, exercises in applying them are provided in figures 2-4 through
28.

Please turn now to figure 2-4. This figure shows the same component
waves, underlying trend, and composite wave that you dealt with in fig-
ure 2-1. Since you constructed this composite wave from its compon-
ents once yourself, you are well acquainted with the movements in the
composite wave which are associated with troughs or crests of each

pouasy suru Hy
uf 88044 S1OPHA. E161 @ WBUIO

 


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line (Cont'd)

component. Such knowledge is vital to the proper construction and inter-
pretation of valid trend lines.

Find two price lows on the composite wave that can be associated with
two troughs of the component wave C. With your straight edge, draw
a line beneath these lows that is just touching both lows. Label this line
VT.

Is the uptrend line you have just drawn a valid uptrend line? Check it
against each of the valid trend line rules to be sure that you can answer
this question with certainty.

Now draw a valid downtrend line for component wave A. Do this without
any further help if you can; if you have trouble, come back and read the
instructions that follow in parentheses. (First, find two price highs of the
composite wave that can be associated with adjacent crests of wave A.
They must also be chosen so that a straight line drawn just touching
them will be sloping downward to the right. Now draw in this line, ex-
tending it approximately one inch past the rightmost price high that it is
touching.)

Be sure to check the line you have drawn against all the valid trend
line rules to make certain that it is valid. Label this one VTLo.

Now draw a valid uptrend line for component wave A. There are two such
lines possible on the portion of the composite wave shown; draw the
one that appears in the right half of the figure. Again check the rules
to make sure the uptrend line you have drawn is valid. Label it
VTL3.

Turn to figure 2-5 and check your results. In figure 2-5, the valid up-
trend line for component wave A is shown as VTLg. The line labeled
VTL4 is not a valid uptrend line for component wave A, and you should
not have drawn it as such. However, VTLg is a valid uptrend line for
component wave B. Study the valid trend line rules and make sure you
clearly understand this distinction between VTLg and VTL4.

Now please turn to figure 2-6. This is a daily price bar-chart for the stock
CNV as of 10 December, 1971. Four rows of diamond-shaped marks

Page 9


Page 10

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line (Cont'd)

have been placed near the bottom of the chart. These diamonds mark
the time locations of the troughs of four of the price waves of the cur-
rent cyclic model of CNV for 10 December, 1971. There is one row of
diamonds for each wave, and the average period for each wave is shown
at the right hand end of its row of diamonds. This is the kind of analysis
that you will be making for yourself later on in the course. Right now,
do not concern yourself with how it was obtained, but accept it as cor-
rect and proceed with the exercise.

¢ In the time zone on the chart falling between grid squares 30 and 110
(note the grid-square numbers along the bottom of the chart), draw in
and label the following valid uptrend lines:

VTL — an uptrend line for the 12.3-day wave (use the steepest one
of the two possible lines).

VTLg — an uptrend line for the 24.6-day wave.
VTLg — an uptrend line for the 49.3-day wave.

© In the time zone on the chart falling between grid squares 100 and 180
draw in the following valid downtrend lines:

VTL4 — a downtrend line for the 24.6-day wave.

VTLs5 — the steepest of the two possible downtrend lines for the
12.3-day wave.

¢ Draw in the most recent valid downtrend line for the 49.3-day wave.
Label this line VTL.

© After you have drawn all six trend lines, check them against the rules
for validity. Then compare your results with those shown in figure 2-7.
(The arrows in this figure make clear which price bars were used in
drawing the trend lines.)

Now turn to figure 2-8, which shows some trend lines that should not
have been drawn:

TL7 is invalid because it cuts through the price bars at grid squares
56, 57, and 58.

paasasay s9437y ITV
“ouy ‘ssaag Ssapesy E161 @ WBLsXdo-)

 


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited S

1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Reserved

‘All Rights

 

Copyright

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line (Cont'd)

TLg is invalid on two counts. First, the price high at grid square 170
cannot be taken as the high associated with the 49.3-day wave crest
until more time has passed. It is very possible that there may be
higher prices before the next 49.3-day wave trough is reached. Sec-
‘ond, even if the price high at grid square 170 does turn out to be the
high associated with the 49.3-day wave crest, the trend line is still
invalid because the price highs it joins straddle a trough of the next
longer component, the 12.8-week wave trough at grid square 162.

Tlg is invalid because it cuts through the price bar at grid
square 121.

TLio is invalid because it cuts through the price bar at grid
square 161.

© If you drew any of the lines shown in figure 2-8, additional study of the

rules for construction of valid trend lines is indicated.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

Page 11


Page 12

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

‘d)

SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line (Cont’

 

 

 

pansasoy SiW3Ia IV
“Sup S504 SIOPEAL EL6T O 1YBEKdO.y

penaiuold ANDHS Uolssiuned noysinA BuNUUdoY

Figure 2-3
Valid Downtrend Line


Page 1

CycllTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘d)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[
t
t
dH
A
H

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line (Cont'
fT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pouaiyoid Anais uorssiusog ynouunn Bunuudey

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ce

 

DEPcerre

paasasay siu3ny TV:
“buy “sang S9pRAL E61 @ WEAK

 

 

Figure 2-4
Exercise in Using Valid Trend Lines with Ideal Waves


Reprinting Without Permission Stietly Prohibited

lights Reserved

 

z

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 3 The Concept of a Valid Trend Line (Cont’d)

 

Corr - 1
Figure 2-5
Results for Exercise of Figure 2-4
The line labeled VTL, is a valid uptrend line for wave C. VTLy is a valid
downtrend line for wave A. VTL is a valid uptrend line for wave A. VTLy is
a valid untrend line for wave Ro hit not far wave &

 

 

 

Page 14


Page 15

PIE a>l4d [EMI YIM sau] puad, pIeA Gulsp uF asio4axg
9% eanBig

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Page 15 CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS


Page 16

9% a4nBiy 40 asiouaxy
£% aanby4

soy synsay

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Page 16 CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS


Page 17

9% a4NB1y Jo 9S1249x¥ ay) 40} sour] puss, pEAU]
8% aunBiy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Page 17 CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS


 

Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Pr

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Al Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 4 Valid Trend Line Use

¢ A widely held belief has it that the longer and stronger a trend, the more
likely it is to continue. Cyclic concepts indicate this is not entirely true.
Strong trends tend to continue long, but the longer a trend has been in
existence the more likely it is to be reversed.

* In conventional charting techniques, a trend line break by prices sig-
nifies additional price movement in the direction of the break. This is
quite often true but can be disastrously wrong. Many different trends
may be in effect at the same time, and the one trend reversal indicated
by a trend line break can be easily overpowered by other trends.

A valid trend line break by prices is used to indicate a trough or a crest
of the next longer wave than the wave on which the valid trend line is
based.

* Refer back to figure 2-3. The composite wave has only been formed
in this figure over about one-half of the wave components shown. The
valid downtrend line of this figure has not been broken by the
composite wave.

* Now turn to figure 2-9. Here, the same component waves and compos-
ite wave are shown, but with the summation performed over both the
solid and dashed portions of the wave components.

* The same valid downtrend line is also shown, and it is seen that it was
subsequently broken by the composite wave going from below the valid
trend line to above it.

‘* The meaning of this break is inferred as follows:

1. The wave on which the valid trend line is based is wave B.

2. The wave next longer than wave B is wave A.

3. The upward break of the valid downtrend line based on wave B
implies a strong probability that the next longer wave A has
formed a trough in the recent past.

* Reference to waves A and B will confirm that this conclusion is
indeed correct.

Page 18


Page 19

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 4 Valid Trend Line Use (Cont'd)

© Notice too the danger of the more usual inference from such a break.
In this case this inference would have been that additional price move-
ment would take place in the direction of the break, or upward. A small
amount of additional upward movement did follow the break, but not
much,

© In dealing with the complex patterns of actual price motion, it is neces-
sary to clarify what is meant by a trend line break. Any price penetra-
tion of the trend line, no matter how brief, is considered to be a trend
line break.

Thus, if the price bar for a given day dips down through an uptrend
line by only a small fraction of a dollar and the price bars for subse-
quent days pull back above the trend line and do not penetrate it
again, the trend line is nevertheless said to have been broken.

When using a valid trend line break to identify a wave trough or crest,
proceed in the following way.

For a downtrend line break:
a. Look back from the break into past time by an amount equal to
the period of the wave next longer than the wave on which the
trend line is based.

b. Find the lowest price low within this span of time.

c. Consider that in all probability a trough of this next longer wave
is associated with this price low.

For an uptrend line break:
a. Look back from the break into past time by an amount equal to
the period of the wave next longer than the wave on which the

trend line is based.

b. Find the highest price high in this span of time.

c. Consider that in all probability a crest of this next longer wave
is associated with this price high.

paasasay siy3P IY

“ouy ‘ssaag S49PRAL, C161 @ 14BLAdOD

peuaiWold AOS UorssiuHed inowiM SuNUUdeY


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

 

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 4 Valid Trend Line Use (Cont'd)

To be sure you understand the use of valid trend lines, please com-
plete the exercises of figure 2-10. In this figure actual price movement
is used. The troughs of component waves have been pre-identified for
you and their time locations marked by diamonds. The average
period of each of these waves is shown to the right of its row of
diamonds.

On the chart of figure 2-10, draw the valid uptrend line that, when
broken in the downward direction, would imply that the 39.7-day wave
cycle lying between grid squares 78 and 120 had formed its crest. Label
this line VTLy.

Draw the valid uptrend line that, when broken, would imply that the
20-day wave cycle lying between grid squares 120 and 141 had formed
its crest. Label this line VTL9.

Draw the valid uptrend line, the breaking of which would imply that the
84-day wave cycle lying between grid squares 78 and 169 had formed
its crest. Label this line VTL3.

Draw the valid uptrend line, the breaking of which would imply that the
24-week wave cycle had formed its crest. Label this line VTL4.

Now draw the valid downtrend line across the price bars associated
with the crests of the two 11.2-day wave cycles lying between grid
squares 141 and 169. Label this line VTL5.

Study the five trend lines you have drawn, checking them against the
valid trend line rules to make certain that they are all valid.

What would a break of VTLg in the upward direction imply? Write down
your answer before you proceed.

Now turn to figure 2-11 and compare the trend lines shown with those
you have drawn on figure 2-10. Arrows are used on figure 2-11 to in-
dicate exactly which price bars have been used to draw the trend lines.

Please note that VTLy was drawn from the price bar at grid square 84
rather than the one at grid square 78, if VTL; had been drawn from


Page 21

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 4 Valid Trend Line Use (Cont'd)

the price bar at grid square 78, it would be invalid because it would cut
through the price bar at grid square 84.

© In answer to the question about VTL5, an upward break would imply
the following: The trough of the next longer wave, the 20-day wave, has
very probably occurred and is associated with the price bar at grid
square 169. (This price low was selected as the one associated with the
20-day wave trough by means of the rule previously discussed; that is,
it is the lowest price within a 20-day time span, looking back from the
time of the VTL break.) We would also suspect that because the 39.7-
day wave trough is overdue, it has probably also occurred. However, we
would not like to make this assumption on the basis of the VTLs break
alone. But notice that a line drawn across the price bars associated with
the crests of the two most recent 20-day cycles (the price bars at grid
squares 135 and 142) would not give us a workable downtrend line. We
will have to rely on another tool, which will be introduced in the next
section, to verify the troughs of the 39.7-day, and longer, waves.

When you have completed study of figures 2-10 and 2-11,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

pansasoy sw IV
ysskdo

ou ‘ssaug S29pEI EL6I

 

z
3
3
a


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited é

‘All Rights Reserved.

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 4 Valid Trend Line Use (Cont'd)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 2-9
Valid Downtrend Line Break


 

€ € €
PSA WEEK ENDING: 19 MAY 1972 DAILY VOL=4.1

ret Tac Servet Tring Car

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS
Valid Trend Line Use

 

 

 

k ow

+ 200
+ * + * w.7D
+ * ’ + 4 + * ¢ p00
4 66 6 6 6 6 66 6 6 © H 4 6 nap
"ab 2b sb 4b sb 6b, 70 6b ab ido tiv 120 10 140 ido 180 140 ido ito eho

   

6 10 16 20 25 30-55 40 45 OS Se 60 8S 70
on

 


 

 

€

 

PSA WEEK ENDING: 19 MAY 1972 DAILY VOL=4.1

“eyecare Tang Caras

 

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS.
Valid Trend Line Use
Cepyrig ©1973 Trades rl
Ab hg ered

 

+
+ * + 9.70
+ ’ + ¢ 4 + + * 0.00
¢ 66 6 © Oo 6 HHO oo © 6 1.20
"yb ab sb ab sb ob 7h 0b 9 100 tio td0 10 140 ido 180 t40 ado 10 ado

6 10 16 2 25 90 35 40 45 6065 60 86 70 75 8D 85 90 08


ing Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Tr

 

Page 25

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 5 FLD’s — The Price Move Predictors
© FLD is short for Euture Line of Demarcation.
© There is an FLD associated with each wave of a cyclic model.

Construction of an FLD consists essentially of shifting past prices into
the future by a calculated time span called the FLD number.

The first step in the construction of an FLD is to compute this FLD
number.

The FLD number is derived as follows:
1. Divide the period of the wave on which the FLD is based by 2.0
2. Add 1.0 to this
3. Round the result to the nearest whole number.

© Example determination of an FLD number for a wave with a period of
9.7 days:

1. Divide wave period by 2.0: 9.7 + 2.0 = 4.85
2. Add 1.0: 4.85 + 1.0 = 5.85

3. Round to the nearest whole number: 5.85 becomes 6.0

4. Therefore, the FLD number corresponding to a wave with a
9.7-day period is 6.0 days.

Example determinaton of an FLD number for a wave with a period of
16.2 weeks:

1. Divide wave period by 2.0: 16.2 + 2.0 = 8.1
2, Add 1.0: 8.1 + 1.0 = 91

3. Round to the nearest whole number: 9.1 becomes 9.0

4. Therefore, the FLD number corresponding to a wave with a 16.2-
week period is 9.0 weeks.


Page 26

CyellTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 5 FLD’s — The Price Move Predictors (Cont'd)

Once the FLD number has been derived, the corresponding FLD is
drawn on the price-bar chart as follows (please refer to figure 2-12 as
you proceed):

1. Note the most recent price-bar on the chart (normally the last
price datum available and plotted at the right of the chart).

2. Counting this last price-bar as one, continue to count price
bars to the left, one time unit at a time, until the FLD number
(which is 6 for the example of figure 2-12) is reached.

3. Note the average price for the price-bar reached at the end of the
count. (Note: average price can be obtained graphically as the
point half way between the high price and the low price on a price
bar, or it can be computed as the sum of the high and low prices
of the bar divided by two).

4, Plot the value of this average price in the first future time position
on the chart (one time unit to the right of the most recent price
bar plotted).

5. Now note the average price of the price bar immediately to the
right of the one found by counting back the FLD number. Plot
this average price in the second future time position (two time
units to the right of the most recent price-bar plotted).

6. Continue in this manner until you run out of price bars or
run out of space on the chart.

7. Connect the plotted future-time average price values by short
straight lines. The result is the future line of demarcation for the
wave from whose period the FLD number was derived

Note: If the FLD-number count should end on a time space when the
markets were not open (daily charts only), connect the average prices
of the two price bars on either side of the time gap by a
straight line. Use the price value of this straight line where it inter-
sects the day of the needed average price.

wBukdo

posse 80H IY

@ poy 500 ss0p881 L619

ponaiuold kiouig vo!ssiwied inouninn BunUUdoN


3
€
=

 

CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 5 FLD’s — The Price Move Predictors (Cont'd)

« Figure 2-12 and the above explanatory material should be studied until
the process is clear in your mind.

© Figure 2-12 shows only one FLD; the one based on the price wave with
a period of 9.2 weeks. But it should be clearly understood that other
FLD's corresponding to all other waves in the applicable cyclic model
could be drawn on the same bar chart. Indeed, this is very often done,
as you will see later in the lesson.

* A chart of actual price movement is presented in figure 2-13 so that
you can exercise your knowledge of FLD construction. The current
cyclic model has been worked out for you and is shown in the table on
the chart. Please draw an FLD for each wave component of the cyclic
model and check your results against figure 2-14.

© The FLD is an extremely powerful tool of cyclic analysis, and it can be
used in a wide variety of ways. The most important of these uses is the
estimation, or prediction, of the objective for a potential change in
price — before a price reversal has even started! That is why this first
introduction to the FLD concept has been entitled FLD’s — The Price
Move Predictors.

© If you have completed the exercise of figures 2-13 and 2-14,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

Page 27


Page 28

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 5 FLD’s — The Price Move Predictors (Cont'd)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

peasasay suing IV
“buy 'ssaug SOPRA EET @ WELAKdoD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 2-12
Example of 9.2 Week FLD


 

€ € €
‘T WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 DAILY vous 6

 

 

ea Servet Tring Care |
LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS
FLD's — The Price Move Presotere

 

Figure 2-13
Exercise in Drawing FLO‘s from a Cyclic Model

"ab eb sb 4b sb cb 7b ob sb 160 io tdo tdo 140 180 1do sto sdo ido do

3 1D 18 20 25 90 95 4D 45 8D, 8S 8D 8S 70-75 8D AS MDS


 

€ € €

 

FT WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 DAILY VOLES.8

B16 31.5
DD _B
Crete Serve Trakg oar

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS
Prodiotore

FLD's — The Prioe Move

aon

 

 

 

Figure 2-14
Results for Exercise of Figure 2-12

"ab 2b sb 4b sb 6b 7b 8b 5b 160 tio tfo do 140 sdo 10 40 1do sho edo

5 10 18 @ 8 90 98 40 45 80 $5 60 68 70 75 80 BS 8D MS


CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS
SECTION 6 How FLD’s Are Related to Waves

 FLD’s work because of the actuality of the basic cyclic concepts and
principles in equity price movement.

 

 

* Applying the FLD process to a single, ideal wave results in a second
wave that is identical to the first except that it is phase-shifted forward
in time by essentially one-half of the wave period.

© As indicated in figure 2-15, two such waves, identical except for a phase
difference of one-half of the wave period, exhibit three useful character-
istics:

ling Without Permission Str

1. When the FLD of the wave is forming a trough in the future,
that is where the price wave will form a crest when that future

 

é time has arrived.
Similarly, when the FLD of the wave is forming a crest in the fu-
ture, that is where the price wave will form a trough when that
@ future time has arrived.

2. When the FLD of the wave is moving down in the future, that is
where the price wave will be moving up when that future time
has arrived.

Similarly, when the FLD of the wave is moving up in the future,
that is where the price wave will be moving down when that future
time has arrived.

°

When the price wave moves up through its FLD, the price wave
has formed a trough one-fourth of the wave period in the past, and
the price wave is one-half as far up as it is going to go for that
cycle.

Similarly, when the price wave moves down through its FLD, the
price wave has formed a crest one-fourth of the wave period in the
past, and the price wave is one-half as far down as it is going to
go for that cycle.

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

« It is this last characteristic that provides FLO’s with the potential for
price move prediction at two times during each cycle of each price
wave in a current cyclic model

« Please turn now to figure 2-16. On the lower half of this figure, a wave
with a period of 16 time units is shown up to time A.

Page 31


Page 32

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 6 How FLD’s Are Related to Waves (Cont'd)

© In order to better illustrate the basic ideas of FLD interactions with
price movements, an FLD number for this wave has been derived
omitting the addition of the number one. Thus, the FLD number used is
just period divided by two, which is: 16 + 2 equals 8.

Note: The reason for the addition of the number one in normal
FLD operations will be made clear in a future lesson.

This (slightly modified) FLD is shown in the lower half of the figure as
a dashed line out to time D.

« In the upper portion of this figure, time has elapsed (from time A to

time D) so that the original price wave is now shown complete to time
D. The portion of the FLD shown below is repeated here and extend-
ed as far as it can be drawn.

Comparing the two displays of this figure, the elemental relation-

ships between a wave and the associated FLD are clearly visible.

1. In the lower display the FLD is showing a trough in the future
(at time B). This should predict the occurrence of a price wave
crest at the same time in the future. Comparison of the two dis-
plays shows that this came about.

2. In the lower display the FLD was moving up from time B to time
D in the future. This should mean that during the same time in
the future the associated price wave should be moving down.
Comparison with the upper display shows that this also came
about.

3. At time C the price wave moved from above its FLD to below.
This should mean that the price wave formed a crest one-
fourth of its period earlier (16+ 4, or 4 time units before time C)
and that the price wave is just one-half as far down from this
crest as it will go on this cycle. Once again it is seen that these
are correct conclusions.

When you have completed study of figure 2-16,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

passasoy sive IV
“uy ‘ssaag Ss9pea] C161 @ W3UKdOD

 

3
a


Page 33

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 6 How FLD’s Are Related to Waves (Cont'd)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Periaiyoid knots vores use inowia BunuudeR

-yuy sand SPELL EL6E @ MBEAOD

Figure 2-15
Effects of One-Half Period Phase Difference


Page 14

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

"d)

SECTION 6 How FLD’s Are Related to Waves (Cont’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

povaivoid Anovis vorssiuieg inowng Sunvidoy poaassy 43RH IV

® “uy ‘ssaug S9P84 1, £161 © WHUAAO) @

Figure 2-16
Single Wave FLD


 

19 Without Permission

 

Rep

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 7 How FLD’s Relate to Price Movement

° FLD

° FLD
vide

interactions with single ideal waves provide exact conclusions.

interactions with composite waves or with price movement pro-
a great deal of useful information, but do not provide exact

conclusions.

° The

interpretative statements regarding FLD interactions with single

ideal waves can be restated in a more useful form for use with price
movement as follows:

1.

When an FLD forms a crest in future time, it is implied that
price action caused by the associated price wave will probably
form a trough in the vicinity of the same time in the future.

Similarly, when an FLD forms a trough in future time, it is implied
that price action caused by the associated price wave will prob-
ably form a crest in the vicinity of the same time in the future.

When an FLD is falling in future time, it is implied that price
action caused by the associated price wave will probably be driven
upward during that same period of time in the future.

When an FLD is rising in future time, it is implied that price
action caused by the associated price wave will probably be driven
downward during that same period of time in the future.

When prices have been above an FLD and then break below it, at
the time of the break one should measure into the past one-half
of the period of the wave on which the FLD is based. Within
this span of time, the highest price high is probably associated
with a crest of the wave on which the FLD is based.

The amount that prices have fallen from this highest price to the
price at the time of the FLD break has predictive implications.
Prices can be expected to move further down by this same amount
before reaching the price low associated with the trough of this
particular wave.

When prices have been below an FLD and then break above it,

Page 35


Page 36

 

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 7 How FLD’s Relate to Price Movement (Cont'd)

at the time of the break one should measure into the past one-
half of the period of the wave on which the FLD is based. Within
this span of time, the lowest price low is probably associated with
a trough of the wave on which the FLD is based.

The amount that prices have risen from this lowest price to the
price at the time of the FLD break has predictive implications.
Prices can be expected to move further up by this same amount
before reaching the price high associated with the crest of this
particular wave.

It should be noted that in the ideal case, crests and troughs of a price

wave are found one-fourth of a wave period prior to the FLD break. On
the other hand, in 5 and 6 above you are directed to look within the last
one-half of a wave period for such troughs and crests. This deviation
from the ideal is required in the case of price movement because of
variance from ideal conditions, and because the sum of a number of
waves is involved.

* The break of an FLD is also complicated by the non-ideal waves and

complex composite patterns of actual price motion. At times, price
waves shorter than the wave on which the FLD is based will cause prices
to move back and forth across the FLD several times before they finally
remain on the side indicating a break. Such occasions will produce a
range of break points. The inferences drawn should also be expressed
in terms of a range, such as a range of values for the predicted price
move to the next crest (or trough) of the wave on which the FLD is
based.

© Prices are said to break an FLD when the average price falls on the op-

posite side of the FLD from the side it has been on in the recent past.

The actual point of the break will usually lie in between the time lines
(representing days or weeks) on the chart. However, the point can be
easily located by drawing a straight line between the centers (average
prices) of the two price bars that straddle the break. The point where
this line crosses the FLD line is the desired break point.

As previously mentioned, an estimate can be made at the time of an
FLD break as to how much further in the direction of the break prices

Bushido)

Vv

 

pauiasoy swuaR
-ouy ‘sso4g S49PELL £16

  


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

973 Traders Press, Inc.

Rights Reserved

  

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 7 How FLD’s Relate to Price Movement (Cont'd)

can be expected’ to go before the occurrence of the next price reversal
associated with the wave on which the FLD is based.

For an FLD break in the upward direction, this estimate is made in
the following way:

1. Locate the price bar associated with the most recent trough of
the wave on which the FLD is based.

2. Determine the price difference between the lowest point on this
trough-associated price bar and the actual point of the FLD break
(established in the manner described in the preceding paragraph).

3. Using this price difference, measure upward from the point of the
FLD break to a higher price wnich now becomes the estimated price
objective sought

Similarly, for an FLD break in the downward direction, an estimate of
the extent of further price movement in the direction of the break is
made as follows:

1. Locate the price bar associated with the most recent crest of the
wave on which the FLD is based.

2. Determine the price difference between the highest point on this
crest-associated price bar and the actual point of the FLD break.

3. Using this price difference, measure downward from the point of
the FLD break to a lower price which now becomes the estimated
price objective sought.

To help fix firmly in your mind the FLD concepts we have been discuss-
ing, please perform the exercises presented in figures 2-17 through
2-20.

On the chart of figure 2-17 the applicable current cyclic model is
shown in tabular form. Assume that you are interested in the 39-day
component, which shows up strongly in the chart. Draw in the FLD that,
when broken in the upward direction, will assist you in determining the


Page 33

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 7 How FLD’s Relate to Price Movement (Cont'd)

location of the price low associated with the most recent trough of the
39-day wave. Check your results against the FLD shown in figure 2-18.

« The chart of figure 2-18 shows that prices did move up to break the 39-
day FLD in the upward direction. Using your knowledge of the impli-
cations of this break, determine the time location of the price low assoc-
iated with the most recent trough of the 39-day wave. Also determine
the price level to which prices are likely to rise in the current upward
move.

While you are still on the chart of figure 2-18, draw in the FLD that,
when broken in the downward direction, will assist you in determining
the location of the price high associated with the most recent wave
crest of the 39-day wave.

© Your results should match those shown on the chart in figure 2-19: The
price low associated with the most recent 39-day wave trough is located
at grid square 163 on figure 2-18 (grid square 142 on figure 2-19)
The double break of the FLD gives us two price objectives, one at ap-
proximately 44.5 and one at approximately 45.9, which establish a
range for the price objective in this case. (The FLD breaks occurred
between grid squares 168 and 170 on figure 2-18, and grid squares
147 and 149 on figure 2-19.) The new FLD is a continuation of the one
previously drawn for figure 2-17.

‘© The chart of figure 2-19 shows that prices did top out in the region of
the projected price range and subsequently moved downward to break
the FLD. Using the information conveyed to you by this break, deter-
mine the location of the price high associated with the most recent
wave crest of the 39-day component. Also determine the price level to
which prices are likely to fall in the current downward move.

© While you are still on the chart of figure 2-19, draw in the FLD that,
when broken in the upward direction, will assist you in locating the
price low associated with the most recent wave trough of the 39-day
wave.

© Your results should match those shown on the chart in figure 2-20:
The price high associated with the most recent 39-day wave crest is

Paaaasay s9y3Ny ITY
DU] ‘55944 SLOPEAL 161 © IYSLUKdO

Ponaivolg Anois uoissiwieg inouuina Sunudoy


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited 6

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 7 How FLD’s Relate to Price Movement (Cont'd)

located at grid square 162 on figure 2-19 (grid square 141 on figure
2-20); the price objective for the downward move is approximately 39.8;
the new FLD is, again, a continuation of the one previously drawn
for figures 2-17 and 2-18.

The chart of figure 2-20 shows that prices did move down even below
the projected price of 39.8 and then moved up to break the FLD again.
What is the location of the price low associated with the most recent
wave trough of the 39-day wave? To what level are prices likely to rise
in the current upward move?

The answers to the preceding two questions are as follows: grid square
162 and approximately 46.4.

In figure 2-20, a small portion of the last few price bars on the right is
shown enlarged in the circle. This enlargement illustrates the detail of
drawing a straight line between the centers of the two price bars that
straddle the FLD break in order to find the price point at which the break
occurred.

Before you leave figure 2-20, notice how effectively the FLD you have
just drawn illustrates the principles of FLD interpretation discussed pre-
viously.

When you have finished your study of figures 2-17 through 2-20,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

Page 39


 


 

 

EQF WEEK ENDING: 14 APR 1972 D

 

VOL=3.5
“
“| ‘yet Tac Sere Tring Core
A tr rae LESSON No. 2
‘AB Rigse eer FROM CYCLIC CONCERTS TO TRADING DECISIONS
‘How FLD's Rotate to Price M:
“

 

 

Figure 2-18
Results for Exercise of Figure 2-17 and Continuation of Exercise

tdo vio to 140.140 180 ido 140 ido

 

 


 

€ € €
EOF WEEK ENDING: § MAY 1972 DAILY VOL=2.6

(pec eres Tratg Cte
LESSON No. 2 a
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS
‘How FLD's Relate to Price Movemen

 

 

i eb
I i
| Results for Exercise of Figure 2 and Continuation of Exercise

i ab 2b sb 4b gD eb. 7 ab ob do ro 120 ado 140 ado ako 140 “ado ido “edo
i
'

 

 


 

 

[fo

 

 

              

 


 

‘Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 8 More Information from Multiple FLD’s

Single FLD’s are useful for many purposes, but the real power of the
FLD concept lies in the interpretation of the patterns formed by all of
the FLD's associated with a given cyclic model. Please refer to figure
2-21 during the following discussion.

© FLD Location vs Price

When prices are going up, FLD’s tend to be below prices. The more
FLD’s that are below prices, the more vulnerable prices are to a down-
ward reversal. When prices are going down, FLD's tend to be above
prices. The more FLD's that are above prices, the more vuln ‘rable
prices are to an upward reversal.

This can be thought of as the magnet effect, with FLD's tending to draw
prices toward themselves.

© FLD Distribution

When a number of FLD’s are all moving steeply in the same direction (up
or down), and they are evenly spaced and parallel with respect to each
other — a price reversal, when it comes, is likely to be large and swift.

Irregular spacing, with wide gaps between some FLD’s and narrow gaps
between others, implies a spotty or weak potential price reversal.

When FLD's are flat (horizontal), they are unlikely to be broken by a
potential price reversal

¢ The FLD Pause Zone

One or more FLD's may form an oscillatory, horizontal pattern in future
time. Such a pattern implies a price-move pause or stop in the area of
the zone indicated in this way. Such a region is called a pause zone, or
PZ, for short.

© The FLD Cascade Effect

FLD's may arrange themselves so that a break of one FLD projects a
price move that implies a break of the next, projecting a larger price

Page 44


Page 45

CycliTee Services

 

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 8 More Information from Multiple FLD'’s (Cont'd)

move, etc. Such a potential for multiple FLD breaks is called the
cascade effect. A cascade stops when prices project into a gap between
FLD's, when prices project into a reversal pause zone, or when there are
no more FLD’s to be broken in the direction that prices are moving.

* You should study the examples of figure 2-21 to gain an initial
feeling for these distinctive FLD patterns. When you have finished
study of this figure,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

paaosay ssn ty
“vay ‘sang S19pU, E61 WAKE

Jog ynouiim Bunuudou

 

peniaiuolg Anou18 UO%


Page 46

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

'd)

’s (Cont’

SECTION 8 More Information from Multiple FLD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

parraruorg

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1S vorssiwieg inoyna Bunuudoy

 

poxsasay S14
“ouy 88044 S19PHAL, CLOT

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 2-21
Multiple FLD Patterns


2

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 9 Action Signals, Stop-Loss Levels, and Potential-Risk Ratios

© Cyclic analysis procedures applied to actual price movements provide
conclusions as to likelihoods rather than certainties. This results in the
need for action signals to tell us when the probabilities are high that
anticipated wave action in prices has actually started.

¢ The most common action signals are price breaks of valid trend lines
or FLD's.

* To be useful, action signals must be set up before the price reversal
they are to test occurs.

¢ Before a decision is made to enter into a transaction, four informa-
tion items are needed:

1. Assurance that the price reversal anticipated is underway.

2. An estimate of how far prices are likely to move in the desired
direction.

3. The price action that will signal that the transaction has gone
wrong.

4. The transaction entry price that will satisfactorily limit risk, and
produce an acceptable potential profit percentage.

* Action signals satisty the first need.
* FLD price projection methods satisfy the second need.

© The third need is satisfied by a special kind of action signal called
the stop-loss /evel. It comes into being after the price break of an FLD
or VTL has identified the occurrence in the recent past of a critical wave
trough (or crest). The stop-loss level for a long transaction is the price
‘one trading unit below the price low associated with such a trough. The
stop-loss level for a short transaction is the price one trading unit above
the price high associated with such a crest. If prices break a stop-loss
level, that break is the signal that the transaction has gone wrong and
should be terminated

* FLO price projections define sell or cover-short price levels. The stop-
loss level defines the price at which the transaction will be terminated if


Page 48

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 9 Action Signals, Stop-Loss Levels, and Potential-Risk Ratios
(Cont'd)

the expected price move does not develop satisfactorily. Thus, once
these two transaction termination price levels have been established, a
transaction entry price can be determined such that the ratio of profit
potential to loss risk is any desired value. Setting the transaction entry
price in this way then fixes the potential profit percentage gain
expectation.

paasasay SwUBY IV

-auy ssaug SOP] EL6T @ WWBLAKCO

¢ These relationships are illustrated by figure 2-22. Please direct your
attention to the buy situation of this figure.

‘* Here, a price objective of 26 is shown, marked S for sell. A stop-loss
level is assumed at 21, marked SL. Three possible buy price levels
are shown, marked By, Bz, and Bg respectively.

© Let us see what the situation would be if a purchase were to be made at
21-2, marked By. The potential profit (called potential for convenience)
is the difference between sell and buy prices, or 26 minus 21-¥2 which
equals 4-2. The loss risk (called risk for convenience) is the difference
between the buy price and the stop-loss level, or 21-¥2 minus 21 which
equals 1%. The ratio of potential to risk is, therefore, 4-Ye divided by
¥Y2 which equals 9.0. The potential percentage is 100 times the po-
tential divided by the buy price, or 100 times 4-¥e which equals 450,
divided by 21-Ye which then equals 20.93 percent.

These results are summarized as follows:

If the sell objective is 26
And the stop-loss level is 2

And the buy price is 21-%
Then the potential is 4%
And the risk is %
And the potential-risk ratio is 9.0

While the potential percentage is 20.93 %

penalueld Anois volsslwieg inowiiM Sunde

This means that if the trade is successful, you stand to profit by 20.93
percent. And this profit is 9 times as much as you stand to lose if the
trade is unsuccessful.

« Now suppose we choose to buy at Bz, or 22 instead of 21-%. This
time:


CycliTec Services Training Course

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 9 Action Signals, Stop-Loss Levels, and Potential-Risk Ratios

(Contd)

 

ly Proh

 

19 Without Permission

 

Rep

LESSON NO. 2

If the sell objective is

And the stop-loss level is

And the buy price is

Then the potential is

And the risk is

And the potential-risk ratio is
While the potential percentage is

If the sell objective is
And the stop-loss level is
And the buy price is

Then the potential is

And the risk is

And the potential-risk ratio is
® While the potential percentage is

© All three of these results can be summarized in a short table, as

follows:

26
2
22
4
1
4
18.18 %

Asa final example, let us see what happens if we buy at Bg, or 22-%2:

26

a

22-%
3%
1-%
2.3

15.55 %

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sell Price: 26 Stop-Loss Level: 21
Buy Potential-Risk Ratio Percent
21-Ve 9.0 20.93
22 4.0 18.18
22-Va 2.3 15.55

 

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

* Assume the sell-short price is at SSy, or 25-Y2. The potential is the
difference between the sell-short price and the cover-short price, or
The risk is the difference between

25-¥2 minus 21 which equals 4-¥.

* A sell-short situation is handled in a similar way. Notice the analo-
gous arrangement at the lower part of figure 2-22. Here the stop-loss
level is shown at a price of 26, the cover-short price is at 21, and three
possible sell-short points are shown at SSy, SSg, and SS3.

Page «


Page 50

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 9 Action Signals, Stop-Loss Levels, and Potential-Risk Ratios
(Cont'd)

the stop-loss price and the sell-short price, or 26 minus 25-¥%
which equals /. The potential-risk ratio is then 4-¥% divided by ¥ which
equals 9. The potential percentage is 100 times the potential divided
by the sell-short price, or 100 times 4-7 which equals 450, divided by
25-2 which then equals 17.65 percent

« These results are entered in the following table, where you should cal-
culate the values to fill in the blanks as an exercise.

 

 

 

 

Cover-Short Price: 21 Stop-Loss Level: 26
Sell Short Potential-Risk Ratio Percent
25-V2 9.0 17.65
25

24-Va

 

 

 

 

 

The above procedures are useful, but a slightly modified approach is to
be preferred. We normally know the sell or cover-short prices and the
stop-loss levels—and wish to find the buy or sell-short prices
corresponding to a range of potential-risk ratios. This can be accom-
plished using the following relationships:

© For a Buy Situation

The buy price, B, that we wish to find is given by

(PR x SL) +S

PR +7

B

 

where
PR_ is the potential-risk ratio of interest
SL_ is the stop-loss level price

S__ is the sell-price.

 

ponsasoy m8 I
“omy ssaag suopeny. cut © NREKdOD

 

 

a


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Rights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Course

 

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 9 Action Signals, Stop-Loss Levels, and Potential-Risk Ratios
(Cont'd)

 

To use this relationship, multiply the potential-risk ratio of interest by
the stop-loss level, add the sell price, then divide the result by one more
than the potential-risk ratio to get the corresponding buy price.

Exercise: Go back through the tabulation of trade variables evolved for the
buy situation of figure 2-22 and use the potential-risk ratios obtained
there to derive the associated buy prices using the above relationship.

© For a Sell-Short Situation

The sell-short price, SS, that we wish to find is given by

gg = (PR x SL) +C

PR +7
where
PR_ is the potential-risk ratio of interest
SL_ is the stop-loss level price
Cis the cover-short price.

To use this relationship, multiply the potential-risk ratio of interest by
the stop-loss level, add the cover-short price, then divide the result by
one more than the potential-risk ratio to get the corresponding sell-
short price.

Exercise: Go back through the tabulation of trade variables evolved for
the short situation of figure 2-22, and use the potential-risk ratios ob-
tained there to derive the associated sell-short prices using the above
relationship.

When you have finished this exercise,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON

Page 51


Page 52

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Potential-Risk Ratios

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Loss Levels,

4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Stop-
mee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 9 Action Signais,

(Conta)

 

paaosoy sina Iv
“buy s894g S19PEAL E61 MBIKdO

 

Uorssluog inowiim Suntundoy @

 

Figure 2-22
Potential-Risk Ratios


sion Strictly Prohibited

 

z

 

Al Rights Reserved

Copyright

 

CyeliTec Services Training Course Page 53

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SECTION 10 A Cyclic Trade Re-Visited

* Lesson number one provided you with a set of Cyclic Concepts of equity
price movement.

‘* In the current lesson you have learned some of the methods used to
derive trading decision information directly from price movement itself
by making use of these cyclic concepts.

¢ You can now see in a general way how most of the conclusions were
reached in the example of lesson number one concerning copper as of
24 November, 1972.

* Exercise: Go back through lesson number two, one step at a time, and
relate each idea and method presented to the analysis of figure 1-4 of
lesson number one.

When you have exhaustively studied this figure,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

SUMMARY

Page 54


Page 55

 

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Summary

¢ The Cyclic Concepts of Lesson number one were converted in this les-
son to methods and procedures by which transaction decision-making
information can be derived from a chart of past equity prices.

Both downtrends and uptrends can be in existence at the same time.
The concept of trend does not have value unless it is associated with a
time period. Cyclic Concepts provide a convenient way of doing this.

¢ A meaningful definition of trend is:

The trend underlying a given price wave is the sum of all wave
components longer than that wave.

* Trend is always spoken of in association with a wave of a given period.

The cyclic concept of trend permits estimation of trend direction and
strength in future time.

© A valid trend line is a trend line drawn according to specific rules so as
to have meaning related to cyclic concepts. These rules are:

1. A valid trend line is drawn connecting two consecutive price lows
(or highs) associated with identified wave troughs (or crests).

2. A valid trend line is drawn so as not to cut through, or intercept,
price bars on a chart.

3. A valid downtrend line must not be drawn from price highs be-

tween which there is a trough of a wave longer than the wave on
which the valid downtrend line is based.

Rule number 3 applies only in the case of a valid downtrend line; it
does not apply for a valid uptrend line.

A valid trend line break by price movement does not necessarily imply
additional price movement in the direction of the break.

Valid trend line breaks can be used to identify wave troughs and

paasasay SU31y ITV
“uy ‘ss24g SA9PELL CL61 @ 1SUAdO)

udu

na 8

5

 


ty Prohibited

 

Reprinting Without Permission St

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course Page 56

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Summary (Cont'd)
crests in complex charts of composite price movement.

When using a valid trend line break to identify a wave trough or crest,
proceed in the following way.

For a downtrend line break:
a. Look back from the break into past time by an amount equal to
the period of the wave next longer than the wave on which the
trend line is based.

b. Find the lowest price low within this span of time.

c. Consider that in all probability a trough of this next longer wave is
associated with this price low.

For an uptrend line break:
a. Look back from the break into past time by an amount equal to
the period of the wave next longer than the wave on which the
trend line is based.

b. Find the highest price high in this span of time.

c. Consider that in all probability a crest of this next longer wave is
associated with this price high.

Valid trend lines are referred to as VTL’s.
© FLD is the abbreviation for Future Line of Demarcation.
* There is an FLD associated with each wave of a cyclic model

* An FLO is a line or curve drawn on a price chart. It is constructed as
follows

1. Determine the FLD number. This number is found by dividing the
associated wave period by two, then adding one.


Page 57

 

cycliTec Services Trai

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Summary (Cont'd)

2. Counting the last price bar to the right on a price chart as one,
count time units into the past until the FLD number is reached.

3. For the price-bar where the count ended, find the average price
and replot it in the first time position to the right of the last price
bar on the chart.

4. Then find the average price for the price bar just to the right of
the one on which the count ended. Re-plot this value in the sec-
ond time position to the right of the last price bar on the chart.

5. Continue transferring consecutive average prices to future time
positions until you run out of data, or run out of space on the
chart.

Note: The average value of the high-low range for a price bar can be
found graphically as the center of the price bar, or it can be found by
adding the highest price of the bar to the lowest price and then dividing
by two.

Note: If the FLD-number count should end on a time space when the
markets were not open (daily charts only), connect the average prices
of the two price bars on either side of the time gap by a straight line.
Use the price value of this straight line where it intersects the day of the
needed average price.

When an FLD based on a given wave is broken by prices, a high
probability exists that within a time span into the past equal to one-
half of that wave period, a price low (or high) corresponding to a trough
(or crest) of that wave has occurred.

When an FLD based on a given wave is broken by prices, prices have
moved approximately one-half as far as that wave is likely to carry them
for that cycle. Twice in each wave cycle such an estimation of future
price movement becomes possible, once when prices are moving down
and once when they are moving up.

When prices are moving down, some FLD's will be above prices. Such
FLD's may be thought of as acting like magnets to eventually pull prices

up.

 

poasosay siya

“Dur ‘ssaug S9PEAI EL61 @ MHLAKO

 

noun Bu

 

 


 

ing Without Permission St

 

Rep

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Summary (Cont'd)

When prices are moving up, some FLD’s will be below prices. Such
FLD’s may be thought of as acting like magnets to eventually pull prices
down

When an FLD is moving down in the future, that is where prices will be
pushed up by the wave on which that FLD is based, provided the trend
underlying that wave does not override such a move.

When an FLD is moving up in the future, that is where prices will be
pushed down by the wave on which that FLD is based, provided the
trend underlying that wave does not override such a move.

When an FLD forms a trough in the future, that is the approximate time
when the wave on which that FLD is based is likely to cause a price high
associated with the wave crest.

When an FLD forms a crest in the future, that is the approximate time
when the wave on which that FLD is based is likely to cause a price
low associated with the wave trough.

FLD interactions with a single ideal price wave produce exact con-
clusions; while FLD interactions with the composite waves of actual
price movement produce probabilistic conclusions.

When the FLD's associated with all of the waves of a cyclic model are
plotted, they tend to form distinctive patterns which provide additional
useful information as to the most likely course of future price action

An FLD cascade is likely to occur when a price break by a single FLD
implies that another FLD will be broken, thus further implying still larger
price moves, etc.

When several FLD's are evenly spaced above prices and moving down,
the next price reversal in the upward direction is likely to break all of
these FLD's in sequence providing a cascade of estimates for the
ensuing price rise.

When several FLD's are evenly spaced below prices and moving up, the
next price reversal in the downward direction is likely to break all of

Page 58


Page 59

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Summary (Cont'd)

these FLD's in sequence providing a cascade of estimates for the
ensuing price drop.

Uneven spacing of FLD's implies the likelihood that a cascade of price
move estimates will not develop, or will stop in a wide gap between
FLD's.

‘A congestion of one or more FLD’s in future time in a horizontal region
is called a pause zone, or PZ for short. Such pause zones imply a high
likelihood of a price-move pause or reversal, or of a price region where
any existing cascade may terminate.

An action signal is a price break of a valid trend line or an FLD that
implies that an anticipated price move is underway and that action
should therefore be taken according to plan.

FLD projections provide transaction-termination price objectives.

A stop-loss level is a special kind of action signal. It is set up after
the price break of a VTL or FLD has identified a price high (or low) as-
sociated with a critical wave crest (or trough). The stop-loss level is the
price just one trading unit above such a price high (for sell-short trans-
actions) or one trading unit below such a price low (for long or buy
transactions). If prices break a stop-loss level, that break is the signal
that the transaction has gone wrong and should be terminated

For a long transaction, the difference between the buy price and the sell
price is called the potential of the trade.

For a short transaction, the difference between the sell-short price and
the cover-short price is called the potential of the trade.

For a long transaction, the difference between the buy price and the
stop-loss level is called the risk of the trade.

For a short transaction, the difference between the stop-loss level
and the sell-short price is called the risk of the trade.

The ratio of potential to risk (which is potential divided by risk) is called
the potential-risk ratio, or PR for short.

paasasoy swyBNE TV
“3uy ‘ssaq S39PHAL E61 @ WBUKdO>

ywudou

panaiyorg kuouIg uoIssruieg ynouN


ly Prohibited

 

Reprinting Without Permission

. Jers Press In
Copyright © 1973 Traders
OPPTIRTAH Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course Page 60

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Summary (Cont'd)

* The potential-risk ratio tells you how many times larger the potential
profit of a transaction is likely to be than the loss that is risked.

« The potential percentage is the percent profit (relative to invested funds)
that is expected from a successful transaction. For long transactions,
this is 100 times the potential, divided by the buy price. For short trans-
actions, it is 100 times the potential, divided by the sell-short price.

« When a transaction termination price has been established (a sell or
cover-short price) and a stop-loss level has been set, it is often desir-
able to determine the transaction entry price (the buy or sell-short
price) corresponding to several different potential-risk ratios. The fol-
lowing relationships are used for this purpose.

For a Buy Situation:
The buy price, B, that we wish to find is given by

p - PRX SU +S
PR +7

where
PR_ is the potential-risk ratio of interest
SL_ is the stop-loss level
Sis the sell price.

For a Sell-Short Situation:

The sell-short price, SS, that we wish to find is given by

=(PRx SL) +C
ss PR +7

where

C is the cover-short price.


seni ito Feiss Stay Poe 6

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

GLOSSARY

Page 61


Page 62

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Glossary

ACTION SIGNAL:

AMPLITUDE:

AVERAGE PERIOD:

BAR-CHART:

BREAK:

CASCADE:

COMMONALITY

COMPONENT:

A price break of a VTL or FLD indicating a
strong likelihood that an anticipated price
move is under way.

The size or amount of the price movement involved
as a price wave goes from trough to crest.

The wave period estimate formed by averag-
ing together two or more trough-to-trough
measurements made using probable loca-
tions of the wave troughs in the composite
price movement.

A common way of plotting or graphing equity
prices. The high and low prices for a day are joined
by a vertical straight line to show the range over
which prices traded for that day. The consecutive
set of such lines is called a daily bar-chart, or bar-
Graph of that equity. Similarly, the high and low
prices for a week can be compiled to form a weekly
bar-chart for the equity.

Prices break a VTL or an FLD when they pass from
‘one side of the VTL or FLD to the other (from above
to below, or vice versa).

A rippling, or one-thing-followed-by-another effect.
In cyclic theory, the tendency under certain circum-
stances for an FLD break to predict prices which
will break another FLD, thus predicting still greater
price moves, etc.

A term to indicate that price movements of nego-
tiable equities have similar qualities, in spite of the
diversity of visual appearances of price charts.

A single wave in price movement, or in the com-
posite wave formed from several single waves. One
component of price action would be, for example,
the 18-month wave, or the wave whose period is
nominally 18 months.

 

pouosy suze

“DUT ‘ssaug S49pE1] €161 @ I4LLKdO

powjaioid KNOWS worestuHed ynownAA BuNUUsdeR,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

‘Al Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Glossary (Cont'd)

COMPOSITE WAVE:

CREST:

CYCLE:

CYCLICALITY:

CYCLIC MODEL:

DOMINATING:

DOWNTREND LINE:

EQUITY:

FLD:

FLD NUMBER:

FUTURE TIME
POSITION:

The single new form resulting from the combina
tion by summation of two or more price waves and/
or other geometric figures such as straight lines.

(or WAVE CREST) The highest point on a compo-
nent price wave.

One completed movement of a price wave from one
trough to the next consecutive trough.

(Derived from the word CYCLE.) A generic term
referring to the wave phenomena in the price action
of equities.

(or CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL) A list of the periods
of the specific price waves active in a given equity
at a given time.

(or DOMINANT WAVE) Refers to that price wave
which is most visually evident in a composite wave
or in price action

A trend line connecting specially selected price
highs.

(or NEGOTIABLE EQUITY) A generic label for
securities, commodity futures contracts, etc., trad-
ed on an auction market.

An acronym for Future Line of Demarcation
An FLD is a forward-shifted replica of past
price averages, with useful properties.

‘A number used in constructing an FLD. It is found
by dividing the period of the wave on which the FLD
is based by two, then adding one.

A place on an equity price bar-chart correspond-
ing to some time in the future; that is, to some
time to the right of the last known price bar on the
chart.

Page 63


Page 64

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Glossary (Cont'd)

HARMONICITY:

LONG:

NEIGHBORING:

NEST-OF-LOWS:

NOMINAL MODEL:

PR:

PZ:

PAST TIME
POSITION:

PERIOD:

PHASE:

POTENTIAL:

(Derived from the words HARMONIOUS OR HAR-
MONIC.) Means that wave periods are related by
small whole numbers.

(or BUY) To go long in an equity is to purchase it
in the expectation of selling it later at a higher
price.

(or NEIGHBORING WAVES) Refers to two waves, in
a set of waves, whose periods are closest to being
the same

A time when two or more component price waves
form simultaneous troughs.

(or NOMINAL CYCLIC MODEL) A list of the periods
of the price waves to be expected in price
movements.

‘An acronym for Potential-Risk ratio. The ratio of
potential to risk; that is, potential divided by risk.

‘An acronym for Pause Zone. A price region in which
one or more FLD's tend to congregate in a
horizontal band. A price region where prices tend to
slow down or reverse a cascade effect.

Any time position on an equity price bar-chart to
the left of a given, or reference, time. (The reference
time is usually the time corresponding to the last
known price bar on the right of the chart.)

The length of time that elapses between a trough of
a price wave and the next consecutive trough of the
same wave.

‘A quantity which expresses the time relationship
between two price waves.

Short for potential profit. The difference between

(autdoy,

pansosoy Siu ITV
“uy ‘35944 S19PEAL CLOT OM

poiaiuold snows uorssiuied Inout SunvudoR,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Al Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Glossary (Cont'd)

POTENTIAL
PERCENTAGE:

PREDICTION:

PRICE ACTION:

PROBABILISTIC

PROPORTIONALITY

RISK:

SHORT:

STOP-LOSS LEVEL:

SUMMATION:

the entry and exit prices of a transaction expressed
in price units.

Anticipated profit (potential) expressed as a per-
centage of the transaction entry price.

An estimate of something expected to happen in
the future. Never exact, always an expected high
likelihood.

(or PRICE MOVEMENT) Refers to the fact that
equity prices change constantly as time passes.
The MOTION of prices as time goes on

Having to do with probabilities; dealing with like-
lihood stronger than possibility, but falling short of
certainty.

(or PROPORTIONAL TO) A relationship between
two quantities such that as one increases, the other
also increases, and by the same percentage. In
cyclic concepts, relates to the quantities AMPLI-
TUDE and PERIOD of the various waves in a cyclic
model.

Short for loss risk. The amount that will be lost in
case the transaction is terminated because prices
penetrate the stop-loss level.

(or SELL SHORT) To sell borrowed stock in the
expectation that prices will subsequently go down.
If they do, a profit is made by replacing the
borrowed stock by purchase on the open market at
the reduced (later) price.

A special kind of action signal. A price level at
which a transaction is terminated because the
probabilities no longer favor a profitable outcome.

The act of SUMMING or adding.

Page 65


Page 66

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Glossary (Cont'd)

SYNCHRONICITY

TREND:

TREND LINE:

TROUGH:

UPTREND LINE

VALID TREND LINE:

VARIATION:

WAVE

(Derived from the words SYNCHRONOUS or SYN-
CHRONIZE.) Means to occur simultaneously in
time. In cyclic theory, the term refers to the tenden-
cy of the troughs of one component wave to occur
at the same time as the troughs of other compon-
ent waves in the same composite wave.

Generally, the strength and direction of price
movement if specific fluctuations in price are
ignored. In cyclic theory, trend is the sum of all
price waves longer in period than the specific wave

for which trend is being defined.

A line drawn across specially selected highs in
price (or lows in price).

(or WAVE TROUGH) The lowest point on a com-
ponent price wave.

A trend line connecting specially selected price
lows.

A trend line drawn according to specific rules so
that the result has cyclic concept meaning (abbrev-

iated VTL)

Means difference from. In cyclic concepts the word
VARIATION describes how actual local wave condit-
ions differ from the nominal, or long-term average,

expectation

A repetitive fluctuation in price with well defined,
measurable characteristics.

M814sdo

>

  

. Pamasay sys}
UL 'S594q S19pEII E44

 


CycliTec Services Training Course Page 67

Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

1973 Traders Press, Inc.
ights Reserved

    
 

SELF-EXAMINATION


Page 68

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Self-Examination

It is suggested that you go all the way through the examination a first time
without referring to the cassette or text material. In doing so, mark answers
only to the questions you are sure of; don’t guess. Leaving an answer
unmarked will flag that question for further attention on the second pass

through the exam.

After you have finished the first pass, check the answers you have marked
against the answer key, circling any that are wrong. Then go back through
the examination and refer to the text material to refresh your memory on
those questions that you answered wrong or left unanswered.

1. An uptrend line is drawn across
two consecutive price lows associ-
ated with the troughs of a specific
wave. Between these two price
lows is a price high associated
with the crest of the next longer
wave of the cyclic model than the
wave on which the uptrend line is
based. This trend line is:

a) An action signal
b) A valid trend line

c) An indication that a wave
crest has been passed

d) A non-valid trend line.
2. Prices have been below a valid
downtrend line and subsequently
break through it in the upward di-
rection. The probabilities then
most favor:

a) A buying opportunity

b) An FLD cascade

c) Prices to be at an all-
time high

d) That a trough has formed for
the wave next longer than the
‘one on whch the VTL is based

e) An immediate price reaction.

3. An FLD derived from price ac-
tion forms a trough in future time.
A price high can then be expected
to form in the future:

a) At this exact time

b) Ata point back into past time
by one-half the period of the
wave on which the FLD is based

c) Ata point near this same time
d) None of these.
4. A sell objective has been esti-
mated at the price of 32, and a

stop-loss level has been set at 26.
A potential-risk ratio of 5 is

W8ukdo

 

ponuasoy s1yBR IV
“Duy 5944 S19PE] L6T

parjaiuold Ananig vorssiuneg inowins SuNUUeeY


&
=

 

ights Reserved

 

2

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Self-Examination (Cont'd)

desired. The required buy price is:

a) 26% c) 27%
b) 27 d) 28.

5. Several FLD's combine to form
a horizontal congestion area in the
price range of 55 to 60. Such a
price region is called a

6. Prices are going steeply up. All
FLD's in the current cyclic model
are below prices. It is probable
that:

a) Prices are vulnerable to a
decline

b) Prices will continue up as far
again as they have already gone

c) The equity is a good buy
d) None of these.

7. To form an FLD number based
on a given wave:

a) Divide the wave amplitude by
two and add one

b) The next longer wave period
is used

c) Add the periods of the given
wave and the next longer wave

d) None of these.

8. The average price used in plot-
ting an FLD point is:

a) The average of all prices on
the chart

b) Half-way between the high of
the first bar on the chart and the
low of the last bar on the chart

¢) One-half the sum of the high
and low price of the price bar
used.

9. A valid trend line may connect
any two price highs (or lows)
associated with identified wave
crests (or troughs).

True False

10. When a valid downtrend line is
broken by prices in the upward
direction, the implied location of
the suspected trough is:

a) At the time location of the
lowest price low within the last
one-fourth period of the wave on
which the VTL is based

b) At the time location of the
lowest price low within the last
full period of the wave next long-
er than the wave on which the
VTL is based

c) Within the past one-half peri-
od of the wave on which the VTL
is based

Page 69


Page 70

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Self-Examination (Cont'd)

d) None of these.
41. When many FLD's are moving
down in future time, these FLD's
are most likely to be found

a) Above current prices

b) Below current prices

c) Entangled in current prices.

12. In question eleven, prices are
most likely:

a) Moving up
b) Moving down

c) Moving sideways.

13. A short transaction is shaping
up. A cover-short objective has
been determined at a price of 33%
‘A stop-loss level has been set at
44%. For this situation, fill out the
blanks in the following table:

 

14, Plot the potential-risk ratio val-
ues in question 13 against the sel!-
short answers obtained:

  

0 ee a aS
SELL-SHORT PRICE

15. Trend is defined to be the sum
of all wave components equal to
and longer than the wave the trend
is said to underlie.

True False

16. Troughs and crests in an FLD
drawn in future time can be used
as indications of when, in the
future, price highs and lows (res-
pectively) associated with the wave
on which the FLD is based may be
expected to occur.

True False
17. FLD’s that are flat (horizontal)
can be expected to be broken in a

cascade.

True False

   

pouiasay us

@ “uy saad S49PRAL. €L¢

ponaiyoig ANoINg uorssiwied ynowNnA BunULdaK,


ly Prohibited

 

é
2

 

jights Reserved

 

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Pres

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Self-Examination (Cont'd)

18. An upward-moving FLD is
broken by price in the downward
direction. A price high associated
with the wave on which the FLD
is based can be expected to be
found in the past within:

a) One-fourth of the period of
the wave on which the FLD is
based

b) One-half of the period of the
wave on which the FLD is based

c) One-half of the period of the
wave next longer than the wave
on which the FLD is based

d) None of these.

19. Prices have been above an
FLD, then break through it to go
below. The price at the break is
52-7/8. The highest price high in
the last one-half period of the wave
on which the FLD is based is
65-3/8. On the basis of this FLD
break, prices are expected to go
to:

a) 65-3/8
b) 77-78
c) 40-3/8
d) None of these.

20. When a valid trend line is

broken, it can be concluded that
prices will move a good deal
further in the direction of the
break.

True False

21. A valid downtrend line may not
be drawn from price highs associ-
ated with wave crests if a trough of
a wave longer than the wave on
which the VTL is based exists
between the price highs.

True False

22. The FLD pattern most likely to
produce a cascade of FLD breaks
occurs when FLD's are
spaced and.

other and are sloped:

to each

a) Steeply up or down

b) Very slightly, if at all

c) Neither of these.
23. The future action of individual
price waves can be estimated, but
this is not so for the future course
of trends.

True False

24. The trend underlying a given
wave is likely to reverse most often

because:

a) Of the action of the wave just

Page 71


Page 72

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Self-Examination (Cont'd)
longer than the given wave

b) Of fundamental consider-
ations

c) The given wave forms its
trough or crest.

25. An FLD is associated with
each wave of a current cyclic mod-
el except:

a) The wave on which a VTL
which has just been broken is
based

b) The wave on which the FLD is
based

c) The shortest period wave in
the current cyclic model

d) None of these.

26. When a count based on an
FLD number lands on a day when
the auction markets were closed,
the proper average value to be
brought into the first future time
position is:

a) The average price estimated
by connecting a straight line be-
tween the averages of the days
on either side of the missing
day

missing day

c) The average price estimated
by connecting the high of the
price bar to the left of the mis-
sing day to the low of the price
bar to the right of the missing
day

d) None of these.

27. The first future time position
on a price chart is located:

a) Just to the right of the price
bar on which an FLD-number
count ends

b) At the time position occupied
by the last available (and known)
price bar on the right of the
chart

c) In the third space to the right
of the last available (and known)
price bar on the right of the
chart, because of the interven-
ing weekend

d) In the first space to the right
of the last available (and known)
price bar on the right of the
chart

e) None of these.

28. The average prices translated
b) The average price of the price to future time to form an FLD are
bar just to the right of the to be

jaukdo3

pasiasay Suan IV

guy ssazg Saapeay £161 OW

 


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Self-Examination (Cont'd)

a) Left as dots
b) Joined by short, straight lines

¢) Joined by a rounded, smooth,
curved line

4) None of these.

29. The more FLD's that are all
above or below price:

a) The more confused the situ-
ation is

b) The more the tendency for a
price reversal

c) The longer prices are likely to
continue to move in the same
direction

d) None of these.

30. When an FLD is moving up in
future time, that is the time when
the wave on which the FLD is
based is likely to be trying to force
prices down, provided this likeli-
hood is not overcome by trend un-
derlying the wave on which the
FLD is based.

True False

Page 73


Page 74 CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2
FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Self-Examination Answers

   

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

  

4. (b) 2
8 B
. ze
4. (b) a ae
5. Pause Zone 7 i
6. (a) 5 7
7. (d) 3 z
8. (c) Ql i
oe we eM
9. False SELL-SHORT PRICE
10. (b) 15. False
11. (a) 16. True
17. False
18. (b)
19. (c)
20. False 2
21. True
22. Evenly, Parallel, (a) z
23. False z
24. (a)
ee " zm] 25. (d)
26. (a)
27. (d) 3
29. (b)
30. True


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

CASSETTE SCRIPT

Page 75


Page 76

CyeliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Cassette Script

Review and Introduction

This Is the start of the recording
that goos with lesson number two
fof the Cyclitec Services Training
Course. The lesson is entitled
From Gyelle Concepts to Trading
Decisions.

In lesson number one you learned
‘of & surprising number of charac-
teristics shared by price move-
ments of all negotiable equities.
You were told that all price mover
mente consist of the sum of price
waves. Further, that these waves
have harmonicatly-related periods,
‘and show @ strong tendency to
have troughs that coincide. Such
waves have amplitudes that in-
‘crease as periods get longer—and
it Is one particular set of waves
that tends to persist throughout
time. You learned that these waves
slowly and smoothly change sm-
plitude as time goes by, and that
wave period varies slightly with
such amplitude change. These
facts were stated as principles.and
wore given names so that they can
be readily referred to.

In adgition, you wore told of the
kinds of decision-making informa-
tion that can be derived from a
‘chart of past equity prices by the
Use of these principles, but you
have not as yet been told how such
Information 1s obtained,

 

 

You became aware In lesson num
ber one of a nominal cyclic model,
oF a list of the periods of waves
you may generally expect to be
Present In. price movement. You
‘also learned of variation, one
result of which is the fact that the
Current eyclle model active at a
‘ivan time ina given equity is
likely to be somewhat different
from the nominal model, and from
the current cyclic model for other
‘equities at that same time.

‘The techniques needed to extract
pre-transaction information on
‘what prices are most likely to do In
the future depend strongly on our
ability to determine the cyclic
‘model at work In the equity at the
time of interest. It is the ability to
make this determination that re-
Quires the most Knowledge of cye-

 

{ic concepts on your part, and the
methods involved will be covered
in detail In lesson number three.

Meanwhile It wo assume that the
correst cyclic model can be deter

mined, we can proceed to lear
most ‘of the methods used in
‘analyzing the copper trading situa-
tion discussed as an example In
lesson number one. Having as-
sumed current cyclic models, we
Will proceed in this lesson to take
you from these known cyclic mod-
fis. straight through to a first
understanding of an analyzed trad-
ing situation. Thon, in following
Jeasons,you will learn the methods
‘of generating your own cyclic
models at neoded.

Because of Its base importance,
t us review once more what Is
maant by the term cyclic model.

\We know that price action Is mace
up of summad or added waves. We
‘algo know that such waves are
‘characterized by the three quanti-
ties amplitude, period, and phase.
‘A complete cyelle model would
therefore, consist of a table of the
ampiudes, periods, ana phases of
the waves responsible for price
movement in the recent past

  

However, for our purpose, we will
not need such a complete cyctic
‘model. In particular, we need pay
very little attention to wave ampii-
tudes. As a result, when we speak
‘of the “current cyclic model” for a
stock or a commodity, we will be
talking about a table of wave
periods and phases only.

 

Ploase turn your tape unit off now,
and refer to page 1 of the accom
panying text for @ review of the
basle principtes of cyclically.

S-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

 

Taking the Uncertainty Out of
Trend

You are now ready to reap the first
benefits from the Cyclic Concept
fof lesson number one,

Having learned that all price move-

‘ment Is the sum of a number of
price waves, and that such waves
have characteriatics that Imply fu-
ture predictability of wave behav-
four — we now want to tind a way
to break down price action into its
constituent waves. To the extent
that we can be successful in doing
this, and within the. imitations
Imposed by the Principle of Varia-
tion, we can then expect to derive
a measure of predictability of price
action itself. From this wil follow
Information on which transaction
decisions can be based.

‘Theretore, an important objective
throughout the remainder of the
‘course will be to learn to apply
various methods of separating
price movement into its compon-
lent waves.

{twill be found that no one method
will accomplish this, and that a
‘combination of several methods is
‘needed. In this lesson you will be
‘exposed, brelly, to these methods
"and successive lessons will
teach you to use them with In-
creasing effectiveness.

‘The first task will be to use cyclic
concepts to give greatly Increased
meaning to an idea that has been
in use by chartats for a fong time
in a rather vague way. This is the
{dea of trend.

‘The general meaning of trend is
the direction that prices are going
if short-term price fluctuations are
ignored, This definition of trend Is
much too vague for effective use.
Wt does not provide a notion of
which price fluctuations are to be
ignoted, or how strong tend may
be, or wnether trend is likely to
reverse in direction in the future —
while a vansaction may be in
progress. Even more troublesome
fs the fact that such a definition of
trend permits both uptrends and
downttends to be in existence
simultaneously, with no way to
assess the future price implica-
tions of such ambigui

 

We will define trend, using cyctle
concepts, in euch @ way that most
of these problems are resolved and
the idea of trend becomes a power
ful working tool

 

poasoy sur IV
@

“buy aug S19PHAL, E461 @ WAKO

§ voqssiwied inowind Sunulden,

 


 

ing Without Permission Strictly Prohit

 

Rept

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Cassette Script (Cont'd)

Drawing upon the principles of
Cyclicality and Summation, we
know that all price movement Is
‘the sum of a number of price
waves. Such a sum can always be
broken Into two or more parts at
‘our discretion,

 

For example, assume a given price
history to be made up of just the
waves of the nominal model. The
‘composite price wave would then
be the sum of the eleven compon-
‘ent waves of this model. This com-
posite could also be thought of,
for instance, as the sum of all
waves of period longer than 20
weeks considered as a single enti-
1y, plus the sum of the 20-week
and all shorter waves.

{In the case ot this example, we will
‘now define “the sum of the waves
(of perlod longer than 20 weeks” as
the trend underlying the composite
wave made up of the 20-week wave
plus all shorter waves. (For discus
‘sion purposes we may often say,
“the trend underlying the 20-wedk
wave": but we really mean, "un-
rlying the composite wave made
up of the 20-woek wave and all
shorter waves.”)

 

‘As another example, suppose we
chose to separate the composite
wave for this same model into two
other sums. Let us choose, in this
Instance, the sum of all waves
longer than 40 days, plus the sum
of the 40-day wave and all shorter

In this case,trend would be defined
fs the sum of all waves. longer
than 40 days in period.

It is seen that a trend, defined in
this manner, Is associated with
each wave in any current cyclic
‘model. Furthermore, we can name
each such trend by asociating It
with the wave component of long
{2K period which Is not included in
the trend sum. In our first exam-
ple, naming was accomplished by
the statement, “the sum of the
waves of period longer than 20

This is a highly important concept
{80 let us formalize this definition

  

of trend

‘The trend underlying a given
price wave is the sum of al! wave
components longer than that

  

Please turn your tape unit off now
‘and tum to section 2 entitled
Taking the Uncertainty Out of
Trand of the accompanying. tex.
‘There you will find illustrations
and examples of trend.

 

5.SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

The Concept of @ Valid Trend Line

You have lust seen how the use of
the principles of ‘Cyclicality and
‘Summation permit identification of
‘specific trends and attachment of
meaning to the otherwise rather
vague general concept of trend.
We now know that trend, like the
total price movement of which itis
2 parts composed of a number of
‘component waves. Because of the
predictive nature of these compon-
fent waves, once they have been
Identified for a given trend, we oan
then evaluate whether or not the
trond is likely to reverse itself In
the near future,

 

Tho associated concept of trend
line has always been equally poor
ly detined,

Fora long time chartiats have used
lines drawn on a price bar-chart as
Indicators of trend direction, and of
when trend has been reversed. To
draw such lines, a series of price
lows (between which prices rise
and fallin an arc) are selected and
such price lows are then connec:
ted by a straight line. Such a line
would be called an uptrend line, Or
2 series of price high (between
‘which prices fall, then rise again)
are selected and such price highs
are then connected by a straight
Hine. Such a tine would be called a
Gowntrend line.

 

The problem with such a procedure
Is analogous to the problem faced
with trend, in that no two chartists
would necessarily select the same
sets of price highs or lows from

Which to draw trend tines, nor
ould specific meaning be aitach-
fed to any such trend line drawn

Once again, many of the problems
with trend lines can be resolved by
use of cyclic concepts.

‘The key to doing 80 lies in recog-
nition of the fact that the price
oscillations: between the ows oF
highs selected for @ trend line are
just the effects of the price wave
movernents you now know exist.
Thus, trend lines are drawn from
price lows or highs corresponding
to wave troughs or crests, respec:
tively.

 

This means that, once the com-
ponent waves in'price have been
\dontitied, we can always draw a
trendline associated with each. of
the waves. in the current cyclic
‘model. Further, we can name each
such trend line by associating it
ith the corresponding wave in the
eyelle model

For example, assume a given price
‘movernent to consist of the sum of
the components of the nominal
model. Then, an uptrend line
drawn from price lows associated
with tougns of the 20-day ws
would be called the 20-day uptrend
Hine. ‘Similarly, a downtrend line
‘drawn from price highs associated
with crests of the 18-month wave
would be called the 18-month
owntrend line, ete

 

 

‘Trend lines drawn in the manner
lust described, and according to
three specific’ rules, are called
valid trend lines to. distinguish
them from the arbitrary trend
lines of the conventional chartst
We will now state the formal
etinition of a valid trend line:

‘A valid uptrend tine is. drawn
from the price lows associated
with the troughs of a specific,
Identified component wave. A
valid downtrand lina is drawn,
from the price highs associates
with the crests of a specific,
Identified component wave,

‘There are three rules for construc-
tion of valid trend tines:

 

Page 77


Page 78

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Cassette Script (Cont'd)

1, A valid tend tine connects
two consecutive price lows (or
highs) associated with identitiog
wave troughs (or crests)

2. A vali trend line is drawn so
fas not 10 cut through, oF inter-
cept, price bars on a chart

2. A valid downtrend line must
ot be drawn trom price highs
between which there is a trough
fof 2 wave longer than the wave
fon which the valid downtrend
line 1s based.

It should be noted that this
last rule does not apply in
the case of a valid uptrend
Hine

You should turn your tape unit off
‘now, and refer to section 9 entitled
The Concept of a Valld Trend Line,
fof the accompanying text. There
You will find ilustrations and ex-
amples of valid trend lines and
their rules for construction.

5.SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

Valid Trend Line Use

(One of the many adages that
abound on Wall Street says, in

The longer and stronger @ trend,
the more likely itis to continue.

 

Inthe tight of eyctic concepts, we
would be inclined to believe the
stronger part, but to disagree with
the longer connotation.

‘The Principle of Proportionality
tells us that the greater the ampli
tude of a price wave, the longer the
period. Since a trend that is strong
Includes a price wave of large
‘amplitude and since such a wave
algo has 2 long period, the result-
Ing trend is likely to continue for
some time.

(On the other hand, the Principle of
Gyclicality assures us that price
movement consists of waves.

Thus, the longer a trend has been
inexistence, the mote likely itis to

reverse direction soon, as the res-
onsible wave progresses toward
completion of a full cycle,

In conventional charting tech
niques, a trend line Is used to
signal such possible reversals of
direction of trend. Used thus,
when prices break from above
own through an uptrend line, the
interpretation is that the uptrend
indicated by the line has been
fevorsed and that lower prices are
likely to follow. Similarly it prices
break from below up through a
downtrend line, the implication is
that the downtvend indicates by
the line has been reversed and that
higher prices are likely to follow.

Many times these expectations are
realized, but it is somewhat dan-
gerous fo depend on this. We now
know that many different trends
exist at the game time. AS a resul
whether prices will continue to
move in the direction of the break
fof one of the associated trond
lines Is dependent on the strength
land. direction of the remaining
trends,

We will use valid trend lines for a
slightly different purpose. To un-
derstand what this purpose is and
‘why it is important, consider the
following

When price waves combine by
summation, very complex com-
posite waves can be formed In
‘which visual identification of the
component waves. Is difficult.
We need methods which can
help us locate the time positions
‘of individual wave troughs in
these complex composite price
movements. One such method
makes use of valid trend tines.

Without turning off your tape unit,
feler back to figure 22 at the
fend of section 2. In this figure,
notice how the trends underlying
shorter and shorter period waves
reverse direction more and more
often. In fact, you will note that
trend underlying a_given wave
tends to reverse itself as the next
longer wave reverses. From this
‘observation we can draw a generat

‘Avalid trend line based on a giv
fen wave strongly tends to be
broken by prices after the for
mation of a trough or a crest of
the next longer wave.

We can re:phrase this statement in
a more positive and useful way.

A break by prices through a
valid trend line strongly sug-
{ests that the wave just longer
than the wave on which the valid
trend line is based has formed a
trough or a crest in the recent
past.

‘Thus, we see that a valid trend line
‘can be used as one way of con-
firming that a given component
wave has formed troughs or crests
at various times In the past. From
the locations of these troughs or
crests we can gain valuable meas-
Uurements of component wave peri-
ods and phases.

It should be emphasized that any
cone technique, such a8 this one,
will give information at one time
but perhaps not at another. This is
why several methods are needed in
‘order to gain sufficient information
fon which to base trading
decisions

You should turn off your tape unit
now, and proceed to section 4
entitled Valid Trend Line Use, of
the accompanying text.

S-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

FLD’s — The Price Move Predictor

You have been Introduced now to
the concepts of trend and of valid
trend lines. For the sake of brevity
the phrase valid trend line will be
shortened to VIL in future usage.

Wis time now to introduce you to
another very usetul concept called
the FLD. This ig short for Euture
Line of Demarcation, a description
that will become more meaningful
a we progress.

In this lesson, you will be given an
Initia exposure to the methods of
construction and usage of FLD's.
Additional capability in their use

“AMIDE UBNA HY
SUT ‘S824d S1OPELY EL6T @ IYBLAAdO-

 

z
i

 

z


‘out Permission Strictly Prohibited

 

Reprinting Wi

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,
Al Rights Reserved

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Cassette Script

will come with Increased under-
standing of why this versatile pro
cess works a9 it does. This in-
Ceased understanding will be pro-
vided in later lessons.

‘The FLD has no counterpart in
Previous methods of approach to
the equity auction markets. This
‘completely new process came into
being directly as understanding of
cyclic concepts grew,

‘As with trend and valid trend lines,
there is an FLO associated with
feach wave component of a cyclic
‘model. To construct an FLO based
fon any given wave of the cyclic
‘model, we simply produce a rep-
lica of price movement from the
post. replotted In the future.

Very brietly, construction of an
FLD for a given wave of a cyclle
model consists of the following
‘steps: First a time span by whieh
ast prices are to be shifted for-
Ward into the future is calculates
from the petiod of the given wave.
Then past prices, using the dally
price averages, are shifted by this
time span into eotresponding posi-
tions in future time. The points
thus plotted are connected togeth:
er by a series of short, straight
lines. The result is the desired
FLO.

 

This may sound confusing to you
at frst, Dut with the more detailed
‘explanation in the text and a few
trials, you will find the work pro-
ceeding smoothly and quickly. So,
you should turn your tape unit off
now and proceed to section 5
‘ontitled FLD's — The Price Move
Predictors of the accompanying
text, for examples and exercises.

5:SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

How FLD's are Related 10 Waves

FLO's work only because of the
validity of Gyclic Concepts. These
Concepts assure that FLO'S will
have certain characteristics that
will be found to be most useful
Let us now investigate several of
these characteristics.

‘Assume that a glvan price move-
ment consists of a single, idea!
wave. To construct an FLO based
fon this one wave, we would first
derive the associated FLO number
by dividing the wave period by two
{and adding one.

We note that, except for very small
wave periods, the number one that
has been added is small by com-
parison with half of the wave
Period. Thus, for waves of reason
able length, the FLD number is
very close to being just one-half of
the wave period,

In forming the desired FLO, we are
therefore transferring wave values
‘hat are very close to one-half of a
wave period in past time,into new
future time positions. The result-
ing FLD is a duplicate of the
friginal wave, except that it is
time-shifted forward by one-half of
the wave period. We recognize this
a being a case of two otherwise
identical waves with a phase ci
erence between them of one-half
of the wave perio,

 

Now, waves of the kind experl=
fenced in price movement show
three very interesting characteris-
ties when phase-shifted by one-
half perioa

First: One wave is just forming a
crest as the other is forming a
Hough, and vice versa,

Second: One wave is always moy-
Ing up while the other” moves
down, and vice versa

Third: When the two waves inter-
sect each other, one has formed a
‘test just one-fourth of a wave per
od earlier. its, at the time of the
Intersection, one-half as far down
as it will go, The other wave has
formed 8 trough onesfourth of a
wave period earlier and is one-half
as far up as it will go.

Al of these characteristice ave
Useful, Out it ie the last one that
provides FLD's with the potential
for prediction ot possibie price

You shouts turn your tape unit aff

‘now and tur to section 6 entitled
How FLD's Are Related to Waves,
of the accompanying text.

5.SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

How FLD's Relate to
Price Movement

You nave observed the manner in
which a single, ideal price wave
Interacts with its own FLO. in such
ideal cases, the conclusions 10 be
derived are exact. Such exact con-
clusions are not possible when
FLO's are used with actual price
movements because price moves
ments are composed of the sum of
2 number of waves and because
the Principle of Variation teaches
us that component price waves are
‘ot ideal. In spite of these diff.
culties, FLO's provide an immense
amount of useful information when
used with price action, a8 we shall

Our purpose now Is to restate the
rules for interpretation of the inter=
action between prices and FLO’s in
4 form more useful in connection
with composite waves and price
action in general

When we see an FLO dropping in
value in future time, we can ase
sume that the price wave associa-
{ed with this FLD will be causing
prices to rise at that time in the
future, provided that the trend
Underlying this wave is not over-
riding the wave movement at that
time. An analogous statement can
be made if an FLD is rising In
future tine

When we see an FLO forming a
trough in future time, a price high
‘associated with the crest of the
wave on which the FLO is based Is.
uite likely to be formed at or near
this same future time. Again, an
analogous statement can be made
Concerning futurestime FLO crests

When prices have been above an
FLD, then drop down through it
Ime probabilities favor a price high
‘associated with the crest of the
wave on which the FLD Is based

Page 79


Page 80

CycliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Cassette Script (Cont'd)

having occurred within one-half of
the wave period in past time. Also,
the probabilities favor that the
price move from such a price high
to the price at the time of the FLD
break Is of the order of one-half of
the price move to be completed
‘Once more, an analogous state-
ment can be made it prices have
been below an FLD, then rise
above it

 

From this discussion it is seen
that two immediate uses for FLD's
are possible.

Fire, they can be used, in some-
what the same way as valid trend
lines, to indicate when troughs
and crests of the various waves of
given cyclic model have occur-
re,

Second, they provide an opportun:
Ity at two times within each wave
cycle to estimate, or predict, how
far a price move Is likely to go.

[Additional uses for FLD's and re-
finements in thelr interpretation
are possible and will be introduced
{as we go along,

Please turn your tape unit off now,
land return to section 7 entitled
How FLO's Relate to Price Move-
iment, of the accompanying text

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

More Information trom
Mutipie FLO's

You have now studies the con-
struction and use of single FLD's,
land have gained some feeling for
hhow FLD's can be used. AS effec
tive as they are, single FLD's tell
fonly part of a complex story, and
‘the real power of the FLD concept
becomes apparent only when
FLO's are interpreted as a group.

Remember, an FLD can be con
structed corresponding to each
component wave in any cyclic
model. Each such FLO Is unique
land itfers trom all the other

feven though they all are construc
ted from past price action. When
all of the FLD's associated with a
yell model are plotted, patterns

 

tare formed. From these patterns,
‘reat deal can be learned regarding
the future movements of prices.
The more important of these pat-
terne will be studied in this lesson
fang refinements to the pattern
interpretation process willbe intro
duced in following lessons.

When prices are going steeply
down many FLO's will be found
above prices, and sloping down
ward also. Such a pattern behaves
much like a magnet as far as
Drices are concered, tending to
Cause prices to stop going down
and start going up.

 

‘The reason for this tendency is as
follows: Whenever prices break
FLD's, additional price movement
Jn the direction of the break is
implied. If FLD's ate all above
prices, then no downward FLO
break ‘can occur to Imply further
downward price movement. But
consider the potential for upward
price movement. We know that
price waves will sooner or later
cause a price reversal to take
place; and when this happens,
many FLO's are present above
price to be broken, thereby imply-
Ing additional movement in the up-
ward direction

A similar situation exists when
prices are going steeply up. In this
ase, many FLO's will be found
below prices—and this pattern can
also be interpreted as. indicating
that prices are vulnerable to a turn-
around.

AAs a corollary, it can be sald that
the more FLD's there are above
prices, the more likely it 1s that
prices’ will soon stop going down
and start going up. Similarly, the
‘more FLD's that are found below
prices, the more likely it is that
prices will soon stop going up and
start going down.

‘There are other important kinds of
FLD patterns, also. A number of
FLO's may be above prices and
moving down (for example), and
may be either evenly spaced or
very irregularly spaced with re
spect to each other. It evenly
spaced, the expected price tuin-
around, when it comes, is likely to

result in an extensive new price
‘move in the opposite direction. If
the FLD spacing is iregular, the
price tumaround is likely to be
truncated,or broken into a series of
cyclic thrusts and pullbacks,

 

‘The reason for this pattern operat-
Ing as it does is the very Import-
‘and FLO cascade effect. Imagine
fan FLD based on a short-petiod
wave being broken. When It is, a
price prediction in the direction of
the break is implied. Then further
‘suppose that the FLD based on the
ext longer period wave is so
located that it is. likely to be
broken ifthe fist FLO price predic-
tion comes true. Then a second
price move prediction is implied
‘even before the second FLD break
thas occurred. Clearly, the more
regularly spaced and parallel a
series of FLD's are with respect to
each other, the more likely are
‘these sequential breaks to happen
‘Thus, regular and parallel spacing
‘of FLO's implies large potential
price change—once the expec-
ted price reversal takes. place—
because of the resulting tendency
for FLD price projections to
cascade,

Finally, suppose a group of FLO's
are spaced close together and are
more of less horizontal with wide
‘spacings on either side before
cother FLO's are encountered. This
would imply that prices would
tend to oscillate in ‘small moves
within the region of such FLO
‘groupings. Thus, such groupings
signal where, in the future, prices
are likely to pause in a given move
(These pauses are, of course,
‘caused by the wave action that we
‘are by now familiar with.) Such
fegions of FLD congestion are
appropriately called pause zones.

‘The interpretation of these various
istributions of multiple FLD's will
play an important role in the cyclic
analyses of trading and invest-
‘ment situations as taught in this

Please turn your tape unit off now,
and refer to section 8 entitled More
Information from Multiple FLD's of
the accompanying text.

voor oe, PRIN SNA TY
Su] ‘SS014 S39 EAL E161 @ IYBUKdO

=
3

 


19 Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

 

Reprint

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘AN Rights Reserved

CychiTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Cassette Script (Cont'd)

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

Action Signals, Stop-Loss Levels,
and Potential-Risk Ratios

So far, you nave learned that cyclic
concepts lead to a potential for
estimating future tends; to a det-
inition of trend tines that makes
them more useful; and to the new
idea of future lines of demarcation
which have price move predictive
implications. You have only been
introduced to these new concepts
0 far, and have been given
enough information regarding
them to catch a glimpse of the
trading situation analysis possibi
ities being opened up. Do not be
dismayed if the overall picture Is
fot clear as yet, Several more
Ideas and methods are requires
bbotore all of these concepts can be
related 10 one another effectively
You will nave ample opportunity In
following lessons to put all these
techniques to work, and to observe
the interrelationships involved

You should now become acquain-
ted with the idea of action signals.

When a cyclic analysis is perform:
‘ed on an equity, certain probabil
Istic conclusions will result. By
this it is meant that the analysis,
will lead you to stiongly suspect
that certain future price move-
ments are likely to come about
and that such movements are lke
Wy to occur in the vicinity of a
particular future time,

Because such conclusions regard
ing future occurrences represent
likelinoods rather than certainties,
It is wise to set up teste for the
anticipated occurrences. These
tests require tuture prices to be-
hhave in a particular manner betore
WW can be sald the probabilities
favor that the predicted, or expec
ted, price movements are actually
underway,

Such tests are called action sig-
nals

‘The most common action signals
are price breaks of valid trend lines

and price breaks of FLD's, both of
which you have already’ learned
something about when they are
used in a somewhat different
sense, Another type of action
signal isthe stop-loss level, which
will be described in a moment.

But first we must introduce anoth-
fer concept that you shouls become
acquainted with: the thorough
assessment of the possible finan
cial outcome of a transaction,
Considering both the possibility of
success and the possibility of
failure. This assessment must be
made before the transaction is
entered. A valuable aid in such a
financial analysis is the device
called potentiar-rsk ratio,

The three tools just mentioned —
the action signal, the stop-loss
level, and the potential-risk ratio
— are best discussed by means of
an example:

Suppose a cyclic model has been
constructed for a certain equity by
methods to be learned in lesson
umber three. Suppose turther,
that the equity in question has
been dropping in price. Again
using methods to be learned in
lesson number three, a nest-of
lows has been predicted for the
near future, within a known time
tolerance period.

Recalling the combined effect of
the principles of Harmonicity and
Synchronicity at price lows, you
know that prices will be arested,
and will probably move upward
‘uite sharply a6 the nest-ot-lows is
reaches

‘To determine whether the impend-
ing price reversal is likely to result
ina profitable transaction, you
must begin your analysis while
prices are still going down. Using
your array of cyclic-coneapt tools,
you must make the necessary a
fangements to provide yourself
with the following four information
items:

 

1. At the time, In the near
future, when you are actually
considering entering the tran
action, you must have reason-

 

able assurance that the nest-of=
lows has actually been passed
and that the expected price rally
|s- underway

2. You must know how high
prices are likely 10 go following
the expected price reversal

3. You must know belore you
fenter the transaction what price
movement (occurring alter you
hhave entered the transaction)
will tell you that something has
{gone wrong, and that the trans-
action must be terminated.

4. You must know the highest
price that can be paid for the
equity and still allow an accept-
able protit If the transaction is
successful, and sutficienty limit
the loss it the transaction is
unsuccessful

Action signals, using valid vend
tines and FLD'S, are the source of
the fist of these important pieces
of information; telling you that the
probabilities favor that anticipated
price moves are, indeed.
underway,

 

Now you can begin to appreciate
the valid trend tine and FLD con-
‘cepts. Each of these tools can
answer wave questions you wish
10 pose.

In the case of this example, the
first such question you would ask
is: When has the anticipated nest-
of-lows actually occurred, so that
the risks of buying are minimized?
And we have already seen how
Valid trend lines and FLO's can be
used for just this purpose; that is,
{0 test for troughs (and crests) of
price wave action

Now for item two: Before making a
4 decision to buy ones an action
‘Signal has been flashed, you must
know how far prices are likely to
rise after the anticipated price
feversal occurs. Here, we have
seen that FLD's and the Interpre-
{ation of the patterns they form
have the capability of doing just
what Is needed; that is, estimating
the extent of future price moves,

Now to consider item three: You

Page 61


CycliTee Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Cassette Script (Cont'd)

must know in advance what price
movement (occurring after youhave
‘entered the transaction) signals
that things have gone wrong, and
that the probabilities no longer
favor a successful transaction
This is the special form of action
signal previously mentioned, the
‘stop-toss level

 

Let's see how we would set up a
stop-loss level for the example
we're following

We're expecting downward moving
prices {0 enter a nest-ol-lows,
feverse direction and go to a
predicted price on the upside. Sup-
pose we determined that when
prices break from below up
through an FLD based on a 10-day
wave inthe cyclic model, the
probabilities strongly favor that the
nestot-lows has been passed and
That prices are very likely 10 cas
cade through other FLD's to the
price objective. The break of the
To-day FLD tells us that the 10-
day wave formed a trough some-
time within one-half of this period
{or 5 days) inthe past, and that the
lowest price in this time region is
most probably closely associated
with thie ough.

Now, if we are correct in our
assumption that this 10-day wave
teough is part of a nestof-iows
involving tonger periog waves
then prices should proceed 10 the
objective without again dropping
below this lowest price level at the
10-day tough. Thus, we nave a
ceyelie concept criteria tor setting
the stop-loss level in this example
just one trading unit below the
To-day wave-trough price

This brings us to the fourth and
final information Hem needed in
forder to make a decision with
regard to entering the trade. We
heed to know the highest price we
can pay for the equity in this,
fexample, and still have the poten-
tial gain be satisfactorily greater
than the loss risk incurred. And we
reed to know whether @ successful
transaction based on this purchase
price would yield a profit percent-
‘age that is acceptable when con-

trasted with the estimated proba
bility of the transaction resulting
in a toss,

Now consider: In the example
being followed, we have In hand a
price objective, This becomes the
price at which we wish to sell in
order to take a profit if all goes
Well. We also have a stop-loss
level, which is the price at which
we will sell to limit the loss if
things do not go well, We can then
determine a price to buy for wien
the potential profit is as_much
treater than the loss risk as we
please. And for this buy price, we
can determine what the percent
‘ain on Invested capital will be for
2 successful transaction. With
these considerations, the last
obstacie to making a logical decis
lon, either to enter a transaction
that is shaping up or to pass it by,
has been overcome.

‘The ratio of potential profit to loss
fisk is. called the potentiahvisk
fatlo, and is a very powerlul device
for evaluating the dagree of desira-
bility of @ contemplated trans-

You should stop your tape unit
row, and turn to section 9 entitled
Action Signals, Stop-Loss Levels,
fand Potentiay Rick Ratios in the
fccompanying text for examples
land illustrations

5-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

A Gyelle Trade Re-Visited

You now have in hand many of the
methods needed 10 set up a trans-
Action based on cyclic concepts —
provided you have been given a
Current eyelic model for the equity
being analyzed. The means of
arriving at the needed cyclic mode}
will be the subject of tesson num=
ber three, Many refinements will
be needed, of course, and these
will be brought to you in subse:
quent lessons,

Let the tape continue to «un while
you locate figure 1-4 of the first
ection in your lesson number one
text, This 16 the example of a fully

analyzed trading situation for cop~
per as of 24 November 1972. Do
you recall how incomprehensible
this figuee first looked 10 you?

Now, with the concepts of le
number two behind you, let's take
Another look at this figure, which is
just full of examples of the meth-
fods and processes youve just
been exposed to.

 

First ofall, notice the several rows
fof diamonds located just below
price movement. These diamonds
are placed sas to identily the
‘estimated time positions of the
wave troughs for the waves of the
Current cyclic model for this situa
tion. You do not, as yet, Know how
this eyclic model was derived, nor
0 you have available all of the
needed methods for locating these
wave troughs — but these will be
provided to you in lesson number
three.

 

Now notice that a rather large
(lour-diamond) nest-of-lows 1s
showin as having occurred the
Friday before the date of the chart
Notice, also, what happened to
prices the last time such a four
{iamond nest-of-lows was encoun:
tered, The implication is that the
Jong dowintrend from prices around
53.5 is about to be reversed. This
is why, in lesson number one, it
was stated that the analysis result:
ed in a conclusion that this com:
modity contract should not be
shorted at this time under any ci
cumstances,

Now notice the valid downtrend
tines marked 47.7 D VTL and 23.6
D VIL. Using the trough positions
racked by the diamonds for these
two waves (and knowing that the
price high between each such
trough should correspond to the
associated wave crest) you should
how be able to show for yourselt
that these are indeed valid trond
Hines, Notice also that both of
these lines have been recently
broken by prices in the upward
direction. This means, as you
know by now, that the price low
corresponding to a wave trough for
the next longer wave than the wave
fon which each VTL is based can

2)

Bushido

paasasoy siya LV
“sup 'ss94g S49PEL. £161 OH

pongiyolg ANog voIsstwiea iowiM SuNuIdeR


Reprinting Without Permission Strictly Prohibited

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Al Rights Reserved

CyeliTec Services Training Course

LESSON NO. 2

FROM CYCLIC CONCEPTS TO TRADING DECISIONS

Cassette Script (Cont'd)

‘now be located with high probabil.
ity. This is why trough-locating
diamonds for the 95.3- and 47.7-
ay waves appear below the price
low at grid square 172, The breaks
‘of these two VTL's also mean that
{an action signal has been given for
' high probability that the expec-
ted reversal of the downtrend is al-
ready underway,

You also now recognize the FLD's
based on each wave of the cyclic
‘model. Up until a few days before
the date of the chart, al! FLO's
were above prices —- as they
should be when a price reversal
In the upward direction is. due.

FLO's have formed the expected
pattems, including the horizontal
Congestion areas typical of price
pauses and revereals. Such 3
Pause zone appears in the price
region where the nest-of-ows was
‘expected, as it should if a price
reversal Is taking place there. You
‘can now recognize for yourself the
FLD congestion that forms PZi
and P22.

Also, the FLO's for all but the
95.3-day wave are sloping down:
ward in cascade position, indica-
ting that they will probably be
bbroken by the price reversal. In
fact, the FLO’s forthe two shortest
waves already have been broken. A
break of the 47.7-day FLD would
probably result in a price projec:
tion into PZ2, centered about a
price of $0.0. Also notice that if
prices reach this fovel at the right
time, the 241-week and the 45.3
week FLD's may also be broken
which would indicate that prices
would probably continue to rise to
an objective of 52.9

Using your newly acquired know-
edge, you can gee why the stop-
loss level for a possible trans-
action was get at 47,05. And you
can further seo, using the relation
ships provided in the text, how the
potentia-risk evaluation tables on
the chart were derived

‘There are undoubtedly many as-
pects of the analysis shown in
figure 1-4 that are not clear to you
yet. But do not let this disturb

You. Instead, congratulate yourselt
on the progress you have made
since the first time you saw the
figure.

While there are many steps yet to
be taken along the road to prac
cal use of these methods in trad-
ing and investing, you most cer
tainly have a strong feeling by now
{as to how to get From Cyclic Con-
cepts t0 Trading Decisions.

 

Please turn your tape unit off now
and return to section 10 entities
A Oyelle Trade Re-Visited.

S-SECOND PAUSE
BEFORE CONTINUATION

Conetusion

You have reached the end of the
formal presentation of material for
lesson number two of the Cyeiitee
Services Training Course

 

Here you have learned of a number
of ways in which Cyclic Concepts
‘can be used to extract transaction
decision information regarding
negotiable equity from past price
movement alone.

Lessons one and two have provia-
ed an over-view of concepts and
‘methods. In all lessons to follow
you will find, In addition to the
primary new material of each les
son, a review in depth of some
Portion of the material previously
covered

In lesson number three you will
learn of the Periodogram con-
cept; how existing computerized
analysis aids can be of help 10
you; how to form a eurrent cyclic
model as you need it; and how to
determine where wave troughs and
crests occur in price movement.

To aid you in absorbing the ideas
of this lesson, you will find the
following items in the aecompany-
Ing text: A summary of the infor.
‘mation contained in the lesson, a
glossary of unusual words and
terms used; a self-examination
with answer Key provided; and a
transcript of the taped narration

 

You should tun your tape unit off
now.and proceed to this additional
material in the text.

This is the end of the Cyclitee
Services Training Course recording
for lesson number two.

END TAPE


 

 

J._. Hurst
Cycles Course

Lesson 3:
Setting Up the Cyclic Model

Sa?
Pe

ait ed,
TRADERS PRESS, INC?

Greenville, SC 29606

Serving Traders Since 1975

 


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

 

 

 

 

 

SETTING UP THE CYCLIC MODEL

PLEASE INSTALL THE LESSON NO. 3 CASSETTE IN YOUR TAPE UNIT
AND TURN THE TAPE UNIT ON


( CYCLITEC cy
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

 

 
 

   

 

  
 
 
  

 

1. Review...
2. Introduction ..... 5
3. The Cyclic Model Concept Revisited...
4. The Periodogram Concept 10
5. The Price Movement Periodogram and Initial
Cyclic Model ........ .-Page 21
6. Some Features of Cyclitec Stock and Commodity
charts...
7. Trough location by FLD’s in Past Time ....... Page 32
8. Introduction to Phasing Analysis .............. Page 36
9. Entering a Phasing Analysis. 38
10. Extending a Phasing Analysis. 50
11, Completing a Phasing Analysi 64
7 12. Considerations Affecting Phasing Analysis... Page 70
A 13. Extracting Information from a Phasing Analysis.Page 83
iy 14, Conclusion
ey
a2 Glossary
os Self-Examination. Page 111
e Self-Examination Answers. Page 117

Cassette Script

 

Page i

 


973 Traders Press, Ine.

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

BL.

3-2.
3-3.
34.
3-5.

3-10.
3-11.

3-12.

3-14,
3-15.

Phase of Ideal Wave Referenced to Last Wave
Trough .....0.0000cceceeeeeeeeteeveneeeee

 

Periodogram of a Single Price Wave.
Exercise on Periodogram of Ideal Waves ....... Page 13,

Results for Exercise of Figure 3-3...

 

Exercise on Periodogram from Tabulated Wave

 

 

Information «+. Page 15
Results for Exercise of Figure 3-5. -Page 16
How to Graph a Price Wave.........2....004 Page 17
Periodogram for Use with Figure 3-9 ......... Page 18

Exercise in Converting a Periodogram
Into Waves 000000000 cseeeeeeeesreerreeeee

 

Results for Exercise of Figure 3-9 .

Periodograms Showing Ideal Waves Versus
Price Movement ..........

 

Example for Interpreting the Price Movement
Periodogram .........0.0..0cceeeeees wees Page 27

 

. Exercise in Interpreting the Price Movement

Periodogram

 

Typical Cyclitee Services Daily Chart ...... Page 31

Example and Exercise Using FLD’s in Past
Time... 2... eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeeteeerees Page 35

LESSON

3


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

eI

   

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS continued

—— Page it

 

 

Powasoy swuary ITV

SUT “s894q SHOPEAL E161 @ WYSE,


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS continued

3-32, The 10-16 Day Phasing

 

3-33. Complete Phasing Analysis ...

 

3-34. The Completed Current Cyclic Model

i
4
3
a

Rights Reserved

  

All

$$ ge in.

 


ights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al

 
 

T

  

CYGLITEC []]//|
SERVICES ||||J.
TRAINING

COURSEO |||! ||

REVIEW

© Lesson number two presented a set of definitions, rules, and methods based
on the cyclic concepts of lesson number one. These are so important to all
future work with cyclic ideas that a complete summary is presented here
for review.

@ A current cyclic model is a table of the periods and phases of the waves
found to be responsible for the price movement of a given equity at a given
time.

@ The srend underlying a given price wave is the sum of all waves longer than
the given wave.

© Valid trend line, or VTL's, are trend lines drawn according to the
following rules:

1. A valid trend line connects two consecutive price lows (or highs)
associated with identified wave troughs (or crests

  

2. A valid trend line is drawn so as not to cut through, or intercept, price
bars lying between the price lows (or highs) which define the valid
trend line.

 

3. A valid downtrend line must not be drawn from price highs between
which there exists a trough of a wave longer than the wave on which
the valid downtrend line is based.

@ When a valid uptrend line is broken by prices in the downward direction,
information is implied with regard to the wave just longer than the wave
on which the valid uptrend line is based. In the recent past, within a time
span equal to the period of this next longer wave, the highest price high is
very likely to be associated with a crest of this next longer wave.

© When a valid downtrend line is broken by prices in the upward direction,
information is implied with regard to the wave just longer than the wave on
which the valid downtrend line is based. In the recent past, within a time
span equal to the period of this next longer wave, the lowest price low is very
ely to be associated with a trough of this next longer wave.

 

© A future line of demarcation, or FLD, is formed by shifting consecutive
price averages forward an amount of time equal to one time unit more than
one-half of the period of the wave on which the FLD is based.

 

Page 1.

 

 


 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 
 
  

—-

tet

REVIEW continued

@ When an FLD forms a crest in future time, the probabilities favor that
in the vicinity of that same time a price low will form that is associated
with a trough of the wave on which the FLD is based.

   

 

© When an FLD forms a trough in future time, the probabilities favor that
the vicinity of that same time a price high will form that is associated
with a crest of the wave on which the FLD is based.

 

@ When an FLD is falling in future time, the implication is that price action
caused by the associated price wave will be driven upward during that same

period of future time.

@ When an FLD is rising in future time, the implication is that price action
used by the associated price wave will be driven downward during that

same period of future time.

 

@ When prices have been above an FLD and then break below it, at the time
of the break one should measure into the past one-half of the period of the
wave on which the FLD is based. Within this span of time, the highest price
high is very likely associated with a crest of the wave on which the FLD
is based.

‘At such times one should measure how far prices have fallen from this
highest price to the price at the time of the FLD break. This measurement
is an indication of how much farther down prices are likely to go before
this particular wave forms a trough.

@ When prices have been below an FLD and then break above it, at the time
of the break one should measure into the past one-half of the period of the
wave on which the FLD is based. Within this span of time, the lowest price
low is very likely associated with a trough of the wave on which the FLD is
based.

At such times one should measure how far prices have risen from this lowest
price to the price at the time of the FLD break. This measurement is an
indication of how much farther up prices are likely to go before this partic-
ular wave forms a crest.

© When prices are going down, FLD’s tend to be above prices. The more
FLD's there are above prices, the more vulnerable prices are to an upward
reversal.

 

paasasoy swung AY

“auy ssa4q S59PR] E161 @ WBUKdO:


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  
   

      
  

   

) CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

HH
HH

| LESSON

      

© When prices are going up, FLD’s tend to be below prices. The more FLD's
there are below prices, the more vulnerable prices are to a downward
reversal.

© When a number of FLD’s are moving steeply in the same direction and are
evenly spaced and parallel with respect to each other, a price reversal (when
it comes) is likely to be large and swift.

© When a number of FLD's are irregularly spaced, with relatively large gaps
between some FLD's, a price reversal (when it comes) is likely to be weak
or spotty.

@ When FLD’s are horizontal they are unlikely to be broken by a price
reversal.

@ When FLD’s lie in the direction of a potential price reversal, but are moving
in the same direction that prices would be moving after such a reversal,
such FLD’s are unlikely to be broken by prices when the reversal does
occur.

© FLD's may arrange themselves so that a break of one FLD projects a price
move that implies a break of another, thus projecting a larger price move,
ete. Such a potential for multiple FLD breaks is called a cascade formation.

© Cascades tend to stop when prices project into a large gap between FLD’s,
when prices project into a reversal pause zone, or when there are no more
FLD’s to be broken in the direction that prices are moving.

© One or more FLD’s may form an oscillatory, horizontal pattern in future
time. Such a pattern implies a price-move pause or stop in the price region
occupied by the pattern. Such a region is called a pause zone, or PZ. FLD.
cascades often tend to terminate in such a pause zone.

 

tights Reserved

 

 

All
e

AVTL or FLD break can signify recent-past occurrence of a critical wave
trough or crest. If such a break has been chosen as an action signal for a
contemplated transaction, then the stop-loss level for the transaction is just
below the price low associated with such a trough or just above the price
high associated with such a crest.

© Potential profit, or potential, is the difference between the sell objective

ge 3


CYCLITEC »

3 | et SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

 

REVIEW continued
and the buy price for a long transaction, or the difference between the sell-
short price and the cover-short objective for a short transaction,

@ Loss risk, or risk, is the difference between the buy price and the stop-loss
level for a long transaction, or the difference between the stop-loss level
and the sell-short price for a short transaction.

vere PRON SH
UT 85944 S9PEAL ELGI O INBLIKd

© Potential-risk ratio is potential divided by risk. For a given transaction this
ratio is a measure of how much greater expected profit is than possible loss.

© Given a transaction objective price and a stop-loss level, a transaction entry
price can be determined for any desired potential-risk ratio. The required
relationships are:
For a long transaction the buy price, B, is given by

(PR x SL) +S ¢

e PR+1

PR

 

the potential-risk ratio

SL is the stop-loss level

 

Sis the sell price.

For a short transaction the sell-short price, SS, is given by
oo — PRX SL)+C
SS= RFT

where
C__ isthe cover-short price.

@ These ideas are of such great importance that before continuing you should
study them until theit meanings become firmly implanted at the instinctive
level. When you are ready,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON,

Page 4,

 

 


Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

CYCLITEC 0
oe
Gounsee UMN

    

INTRODUCTION

© The concepts of trading and investing taught in this course are dependent
on the ability to separate price movement into individual price waves and
to determine the current status of these waves.

@ A tabulated summary of the information so derived is called a current
eyelic model.

© The process of construction of a current cyclic model involves three steps:
1. Construction of an initial cyclic model
2. Completion of a phasing analysis

2. Extraction of information from the results of a phasing analysis to
permit assembly of a current cyclic model.

© The accomplishment of these three steps requires knowledge and appli-
cation of the basic cyclic concepts and the coordinated use of several
techniques and methods based on these concepts.

© Most of the ideas, methods, and techniques needed have been treated in
prior lessons,

© In this lesson several more of the ideas and methods needed will be pre-
sented. Then the process of setting up an initial cyclic model will be des-
cribed. Next, phasing analysis will be dealt with. And finally the methods
of extracting information from the phasing analysis for use in constructing
a current cyclic model will be discussed,

© The process of phasing analysis requires more knowledgeability and
expertise than any other aspect of cyclic analysis. Although it is readily
learned, it is not a mechanical process. Instead, basic concepts and the
initial cyclic mode! serve as a starting point. Then the analyst uses a chain
of cyclic logic, augumented by a number of graphical methods, to build
evidence that leads to a final conclusion.

© Because of the central importance of the phasing analysis process, this
lesson includes extensive exercises designed to give you a thorough under-
standing of the methods involved. Then in subsequent lessons, ample op-
portunity will be provided for you to develop the necessary expertise.

 

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

Page 5.

 

  


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC rT
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

THE CYCLIC MODEL CONCEPT REVISITED
© A cyclic model is a tabulation of wave variables.

The nominal cyclic model, or nominal model, is a tabulation of the average
expected wave periods for all negotiable equities.

A current cyclic model is a similar tabulation, but it contains the best esti-
mates of the values for the characteristics of the waves active in a given
equity at a given time.

 

© A current cyclic model contains not only wave period information but best
estimates of wave phases as well,

© Wave phase is most usefully tabulated in terms of the number of time units
that have elapsed since the last wave trough occurred. This measurement
is spoken of as “days along”, “weeks along”, etc.

   

© A current cyclic model also displays estimated current wave direction. Four
basic forms of arrows are used for this purpose as follows:

1, Down 1
2. Bottoming \_4
3. Up '
4. Topping
5. Flat —

(The flat arrow is usually only used in reference to ZL, which will be dis-
cussed in a later section of this lesson.)

© Additional information can be gained from these arrows by usi
ations of the basic forms such as:

1. Down, but a bottom is expected soon \_y
2. Up, but a top is expected soon (\ .

The information imparted by the arrows is directly derived from the phase
tabulation coupled with knowledge of ideal wave shape.

 

ig combin-

©@ It is convenient to include in the current cyclic model the FLD number
for each wave based on the best estimate of the actual wave period.

 

— rage.


LESSON ] TT] 1 I l I CYCLITEC )
meee i esse
PETTITT) CoAINeNs

THE CYCLIC MODEL CONCEPT REVISITED continued

© Please turn to figure 3-1. Here a single wave with a 22-day period is shown
up toa current, or “now”, time. (This time would correspond on a price
chart to the last price-bar on the right.) The time positions of the troughs of
this wave are shown by the diamond markings below the wave.

 

 

Note that the phase of this wave at now time would be indicated as being 16
days along, meaning that 16 days have elapsed from the last wave trough

to present time. Given just this information, and without observing the
picture of the wave at all, we would know that the direction of this wave is
down at present time. (Be sure you understand how this conclusion would
be reached. If necessary, review this section in the tape cassette.)

poasasy siya IV
“Duy ‘ssa4g S49pE4] €L6] @ BEAD

© Ifa given price movement consisted of nothing more than this wave, the
current cyclic model would be shown like this:

 

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL oO

 

 

 

Issue: Example Date: Today
Nominal | Actual FLD
Period Period Phase Status Number
20 Days | 22 Days | 16 Days 1 12

 

 

 

 

©@ In this simple example the relationships needed are of course easy to see,
and a tabulation of the current cyclic model is not really needed. However,
in actual price movements, which consist of many non-ideal waves, the cyclic
model tabulation is essential.

© Recall figure 1-2 for the copper example of lesson one. This was a plot
of just the price-bars for copper as of 24 November 1972. By inspection
of this chart no conclusions were possible as to what prices were likely
todo next. If anything, the “longer-stronger trend” adage would lead
to the expectation of lower prices.

© But the current cyclic model, a copy of which is shown on the following
page, tells us something very different. It shows that all wave components
from 20 weeks to 18 months are past due for a trough. It also shows that
the 80-, 40-, 20-, and S-day waves are up. Only the 10-day wave is down,

 

 

Page 7.


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

   
  
 

        

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

THE CYCLIC MODEL CONCEPT REVISITED

and it should reach its trough in about another 4.8 days. Obviously no
short sale should be contemplated. In fact, a major buying opportunity
appears to be at hand.

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL

Heal LESSON

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Issue: Copper, March 73 Date: 24 November 72
Nominal | Actual | Phase | Status | FLD Number
=L _ Weeks | Days
18M (78w) | 926w | 97W | A 473

9mGew) | 46.3w | sow | A 241 | 163.0
20W 24.1W | 31W J 85.3
80D 93D | 7D 4 48.6
40D 47D | 7D 4 248
20D 236D | 7D 4 12.8
10D 18D} 7D 1 6.9
sD s9p | 7D 4 3.9

 

 

 

 

 

 

© From this example, a part of the immense value of the current cyclic
model can be readily seen. Yet it not only provides a great deal of infor-
mation about possible future price movements by itself, but it also serves
as the basis for drawing all VTL’s and FLD’s for further interpretation.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.


4

\

SAVG 91 = 3SvHde}=— Sava Zz = dong —-| SONOWVIG ONISWHd

 

SAV NI WIL

YO ANFWIND

 

ONDO
wwo2w
FOS0
a5>5a
Ord2
>woroO
ONFO

aWIL «MONu

b
=
=
2
a

 

HONOYL SAVM LSV1 O1 G3IN3N3A3a JAVM WW3GI SO 3SVHd It FUNDS
pena? F3FALISIAZY Ld 3INOD TAGOW JITDAD SHL

pomosoy SBR ITV
“pup ‘ssatq S19pEA] €L61 @ WHUAIOD

Page 9


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC

SERVICES He | 3
COURSES TT

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT

© In order to set up a current cyclic model, itis necessary to identify the time
positions of the price lows corresponding to all the troughs of all of the
waves operating in price motion. This process is called a phasing analysis,
and the price lows identified are usually marked by phasing diamonds.

 

 

© The best estimate of wave period for each wave of the current cyclic model
is then obtained by averaging the lengths of a number of period samples
as measured from trough to trough.

@ Wave phase for each wave is automatically found from the position in time
of the last trough of the wave.

©@ Itis very difficult to do effective phasing analysis without some computa-
tional assistance. One form of computerized assistance designed for this
purpose is called a Periodogram.

© The Periodogram is a method of presenting information on any number of
waves simultaneously.

@ It is a plot of wave amplitudes versus wave periods. Amplitude is plotted
on the vertical axis, while period is plotted on the horizontal axis.

@ Each wave is represented on a Periodogram by a single vertical line. Am-
plitude is represented by the vertical height of the line, and period is
represented by the position of the line on the horizontal axis.

  

© In figure 3-2 a single wave is shown along with the corresponding Periodo-
gram,

Study this figure carefully so that you understand how the Periodogram
display depicts the wave shown below it.

© In figure 3-3 a series of waves is shown. Plot the corresponding Periodo-
gram at the top of the page, and check your results against figure 3-4,

© In figure 3-5 a tabulation of wave amplitudes and periods is provided.
Complete the corresponding Periodogram at the top of the page, and check
your results against figure 3-6.

@ Figure 3-7 shows how you can lay out an ideal price wave with reasonable
accuracy if you know amplitude, period, and phase. On a separate piece of

 

Page 10——


A
Hf HET f courses

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued

paper, choosing your own period and amplitude, follow the instructions
given in the figure. Draw one or two waves (taking short cuts and omitting
the labelling as you become familiar with the process) and then proceed
to the next exercise.

 

© Figures 3-8 and 3-9 constitute an exercise in reconstructing waves from the
information given in their Periodogram. The Periodogram in figure 3-8
shows the periods and amplitudes of three waves. Their phase is established
in figure 3-9 by the vertical dashed line, which marks the time at which
troughs of the three waves are to concide. Without looking at figure 3-10,
use the method learned from figure 3-7 to draw the three waves on the
center lines provided in the lower portion of figure 3-9.

Next, sum the three waves to form the composite wave on the center line
provided in the upper portion of figure 3-9. After you have drawn the com-
posite wave, draw in phasing diamonds in the space just below it. Place a
phasing diamond to mark each trough of all three component waves,
using a separate row of diamonds for each component. Be sure you have
drawn the waves so that a three-diamond nest-of-lows falls on the dashed
line. When you have finished, compare your results with those shown in
figure 3-10.

 

© After you have completed these exercises,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

—— Page 11.

paasasoy siqany IV

“uy saad Su9peLL E161 @ 1yBIAKdoy


Jnt © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

‘Copyrigh

CYCLITEC ree
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued
FIGURE 3-2 PERIODOGRAM OF A SINGLE PRICE WAVE

 

AMPLITUDE

 

8 10
PERIOD

7
a
5.
5
=
=

Page 12


FIGURE 3-3 EXERCISE ON PERIODOGRAM OF IDEAL WAVES

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued

25

CyetiTee Services ©

PERIOD —=—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

72

—— 30NLndwy JaNLidwy

paazasoy SIq3Ty IV
s @ -auy-snug supe, $161 0 HBAKIOD @

 

 


é
é

 

All Rights Reserved

Copyright

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued
FIGURE 3-4 RESULTS FOR EXERCISE OF FIGURE 3-3

3S

AMPLITUDE:

 

10 15
PERIOD —=—

 

 

AMPLITUDE

 

 

20

25

CycliTec Services ©

 


CYCLITEC

    

   

seatiee | OT A ees
Courses HTL HL

 

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued

FIGURE 3-5 EXERCISE ON PERIODOGRAM FROM TABULATED.
WAVE INFORMATION

TABLE OF WAVES

 

 

 

 

 

Wave Wave
Period Amplitude
3 2
6 4
12 8
24 16

 

Enter these waves on the Periodogram shown below.

PERIODOGRAM

x
8

3

!
:

 

perio

ht © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

Copyrigt

 

Poge 15__


) CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

   

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued

FIGURE 3-6 RESULTS FOR EXERCISE OF FIGURE 3-5
TABLE OF WAVES

ett

 

 

 

 

 

Wave Wave
Period Amplitude
3 2
6 4
12 8
24 16

 

Enter these waves on the Periodogram shown below.

PERIODOGRAM

 

a
2
z
=z

 

 

 

 

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

 

 

 

Page 16


@ THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued
FIGURE 3-7 HOW TO GRAPH A PRICE WAVE

10.
1.
12.
13.

14.
15,

 
  

1973 Traders Press, Ine.

epee

. Draw a horizontal center line about which the wave is to oscillate.
. Mark off on this line, using small tick marks, a distance equal to the wave period.

 
  

ivide this distance in half by placing a tick mark in the center.

. Divide each of the halves in half; then divide each of the quarters in half again so that the period

distance is divided into eight equal parts separated by tick marks.

. Starting at the left, label the nine tick marks a through i.
. Directly on the center line, at tick marks a, e, and i, place heavy dots, or points. Label these points

1, 5, and 9, respectively.

. Measure vertically up from tick mark c a distance equal to half the wave amplitude. At this spot,

place a point and label it 3.

Similarly, place point 7 one-half amplitude directly below tick mark g.

Directly above tick mark b, place another tick mark at the same height as point 3 (one-half ampli-
tude). Label this tick mark j.

Half way between tick marks b and j, place another tick mark labeled k.

Half way between tick marks j and k, place a point and label it 2.

Directly above tick mark d, place point 4 at the same height as point 2.

In the manner of steps 9 through 12, and using tick marks m and n, place points 6 and & at three-
quarters of the half amplitude directly below tick marks fand h.

Erase tick marks j through n and the labels for tick marks a through i.

Now join points / through 9 sequentially with a smooth curve, and you have a reasonable approxi-
mation of a price wave.

 

 


CYCLITEC
SERVICES

WU AA ro
COURSEO i OA 3

TRAINING

 

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued
FIGURE 3-8 PERIODOGRAM FOR USE WITH FIGURE 3-9

3
2
z
=
z

 

1973 Traders Press, lnc
ights Reserved

  

Page 18,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,
AU Rights Reserved

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued
FIGURE 3-9 EXERCISE IN CONVERTING A PERIODOGRAM INTO WAVES

 

COMPOSITE WAVE

I!
!
!
1
1
1
1
!
!
|
|
'
1
!
I
!
|
l
1
'
!
|
1
'
l
'
1
'
I

6
5
Zz

LOWS

 

 

 

---b-—----L-—-—--—---—

 

tit

 

CycliTee Services ©

 

Page 19


THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued
FIGURE 3-10 RESULTS FOR EXERCISE OF FIGURE 3-9

 

COMPOSITE WAVE

 

   

 

faders Press, Inc.

@ CyeliTee Services ®

Page 20

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

    

 

oe
Courses LTH UILL i

   

THE PRICE MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL

CYCLIC MODEL

@ A Periodogram for a set of ideal waves is exact and definitive. A precise
Periodogram can be constructed from the set of waves, and the set of waves
can be precisely reconstructed from the Periodogram.

© A Periodogram for a particular price movement cannot be so precisely inter-
preted. Nevertheless, it is one of the most powerful aids available in setting
up a current cyclic model.

 

 

© A Periodogram for price movement consists of vertical lines equally spaced
on the period (horizontal) axis of the Periodogram. This spacing is arbi-
trarily chosen when the Periodogram is constructed and has no special
wave meaning.

© As one proceeds along the horizontal axis, these lines tend to increase in
height (representing wave amplitude) until a peak is reached, after which
the line height dim.nishes. Then line height again increases until another
peak is reached and then again diminishes. Such a peak is interpreted as
an indication that the associated price movement contains a wave with a
period about equal to the period of the line at the peak.

 

© To interpret a price-movement Periodogram:
1. Start at the long-period end of the Periodogram.
2. Tabulate the period of each indication of a hump, or peak, that is
present.

3. Designate by appropriate comments those peaks that are most
obvious and unambiguous.

4, Eliminate the non-meaningful periods by comparing with the nominal
model and by using the Principle of Harmonicity.

© Refer now to figure 3-11. At the top of this figure is a Periodogram depic-
ting a set of pure, idealized waves. You will immediately recognize that
Periodogram lines are present corresponding to the 10-, 20-, 40-, and 80-
day wave components of the nominal model.

@ Now direct your attention to the lower part of figure 3-11. This is how
the same segment of a computer-generated price-movement Periodogram

Page 21am

 


ro WW I ] Ty } IIT]| SERUIZES
TAH ESaaws

COURSEO

 

THE PRICE MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL

CYCLIC MODEL continued
would look if the nominal model were active at the time and the Principle

of Proportionality were strictly observed.

© This is an idealization that is seldom approached in actual Periodograms,
but it is useful as an introduction to Periodogram interpretation.

© Note that in both cases the vertical (or amplitude) scale is not included. For
price-movement Periodograms it is the periods at which the peaks are
formed by the vertical lines that are important, hence the amplitude scale
is implied but not included in the plot.

@ The Price-movement Periodogram of figure 3-11 would be interpreted as
shown in the following tabulation:

Periodogram Peak Associated Nominal

 

 

 

Peak No. Period Model Period
1 80 days 80 days
2 40 days 40 days
3 20 days 20 days
4 10 days 10 days

 

© In this ideal case there are no spurious peaks; each peak is clearly defined;
and each peak centers exactly on a period of the nominal model. Thus there
is no need in this example to call upon other interpretive aids. The mean-
ing of the Periodogram is completely clear.

@ Now turn to figure 3-12 where increasingly complex vaiations from an
ideal price-movement Periodogram are shown.

© Let us interpret what the Periodogram at A is saying. The first step is to
tabulate all the indications of amplitude peaks, starting with the one of
longest period.

Page 22.

 

 

pasiosoy sind ty
“au ‘85044 S20] LGT @ IHBLSKdOL


| feaitce | poet ele}
CANS TTT TOT

THE PRICE MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL
CYCLIC MODEL continued

 

 

Periodogram Peak Relative Strength
Period of Peak
80 Very Strong

 

4 Strong
34 Minor
24 Minor
20 Strong

 

Next, the strongest such peak indications are related to the nearest nominal
model equivalent as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nominal Model Periodogram _Relative Strength
80. 80 Very Strong

g

i we Minor

5 z 40 41 Strong

33

é & be Minor

gS

é @ ~ Minor

= 20 20 Strong

6

© In this instance it is easy to see that the 48-, 34-, and 24-time-unit peaks are
spurious. They each rate as minor indications on the Periodogram; the re-
maining peaks rate strong or very strong and satisfy the near nominal re-
quirement; and inclusion of the minor peaks would violate the Principle of

 

Page 23.


 

PTTL SSIES oO
ee rereriiva | sesiiee
ili i { rH lil] CoURSEO

THE PRICE MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL
CYCLIC MODEL continued

Harmonicity. It should be noted that the strong peaks in this Periodogram
even adhere to the Principle of Proportionality.

© The example at B is similar except that the Principle of Proportionality is
not exactly represented. This is more likely to be the case than not in price
movement Periodograms because of the Principle of Variation. For the
example at B the analysis would be as follows:

z
é
F
a

2
3
i
3
i

 

 

 

 

Nominal Model Periodogram —_Relative Strength
80 81 Strong
we Minor
40 4 Very Strong
3 Minor
20 20 Very Strong

© So far, the interpretations have led to the conclusion that a near nominal set
of waves is involved in the price action that each of the Periodograms repre-
sents. In this example at C this is not necessarily so. The analysis of this
Periodogram would proceed as follows:

 

 

Nominal Model Periodogram ‘Relative Strength
80 n Strong
we Minor
40 38 Strong
20 15 Strong

 

 

 

Page 244


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al Rights Reserved

22 Me
courses LLU

THE PRICE MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL
CYCLIC MODEL continued

© Here it is seen that the conclusion from the Periodogram is that at this time
for this equity all wave periods are running somewhat shorter than those of
the nominal model. This may or may not be borne out in fact, but it is one
more information element to be taken into account when forming the best,
estimates of wave periods for the current cyclic model.

 

© Notice also that neither proportionality nor harmonicity is precisely indi-
cated, although the discrepancies are not great in this case.

© Another price-movement Periodogram is provided in figure 3-13. Complete
the Periodogram analysis tabulation below the plot on this figure as an
exercise.

© You should have little difficulty in arriving at the conclusion that the Period-
ogram shown is giving evidence of waves of periods 66, 32, and 14 days
as part of a current cyclic model. These correspond to the 80-, 40-, and 20-
day components of the nominal model and would be labeled “strong”,
“strong”, and “‘very strong”. In this case, this is an actual Periodogram
produced by computer for the stock Research-Cottrell and based on
daily data as of 9 March 1973.

© Not all price-movement Periodograms will be as simple to interpret as this
one, and not all will give as much useful information at any one time. How-
ever, the purpose at the moment is just to introduce you to the concept of
the Periodogram. Unusual cases and the ways in which even more infor-
mation can be extracted will be covered in later lessons.

© 4 tabulation relating nominal-model periods with Periodogram indica-
tions and containing comments on relative strength is called an initial
eyelic model. The initial cyclic model is the means by which basic cyclic
concepts and the useful characteristics of a Periodogram are brought to
bear on the task of phasing analysis.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

  

 

Page 25——


'All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

aa ai
TRAINING TTT TULL LL

   

THE PRICE MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL
CYCLIC MODEL continued

FIGURE 3-11PERIODOGRAMS SHOWING IDEAL WAVES
VERSUS PRICE MOVEMENT

PERIODOGRAM OF IDEAL WAVES
CORRESPONDING TO THE NOMINAL MODEL

10 20 30 40 50 60 70

PERIOD (DAYS) —=—

PERIODOGRAM OF IDEAL
NOMINAL-MODEL PRICE MOVEMENT

 

30 40 50 60 70
PERIOD (DAYS) —=

Page 26——


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

THE PRICE MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL

CYCLIC MODEL continued
FIGURE 3-12EXAMPLE

MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

S_FOR INTERPRETING THE PRICE-

 

 

 

 

 

wll

 

 

List
20° 30

 

 

 

| Ll
70

80
PERIOD —=—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bib
2.30

 

  

 

 

ro

Page 27


Page 28

 

 

Fa
: ©
——
——i
—
>
res
cS
—
—S—
—~s—

 

 

 

O

 

WasuaNg omnePR weiopored | Pron PuWON |

(SAva) GOlad
$6 06 s8 08 Sé 04 $9 09 SS OS Sh Oy Se Of Sz OZ

mn

WV4SOGOINAad LNSWSAOW 391ud JHL ONILZYdaALNI NI SSIDNAXAEL-E SUNDA
pomane? TAQGOW JI1DAD IWILINI ONY WVeDOCOIN ad LNSW3AOW-39Iad FHL

 

 

 

 

 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

Allvd €2Z6L HOYYW 6 ONIGN] 433M DU

 

Pacassy SIq30y IY
“buy s8aug S29pEA] EL6I @ WAKAO:

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

    

    

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 
 

WT]
”

 

| zc
SOME FEATURES OF CYCLITEC STOCK AND
COMMODITY CHARTS
© The bottom portion of each Cyclitee chart contains a Periodogram indi-

cating the wave components that are probably present in the price-bar

plot. (Please refer to the typical Cyclitee Services chart shown in figure

3-14 as you read the following discussion.)

   

@ The Periodogram and the price-bar plot are related in that they both
derive from the same raw data. But they are completely unrelated from
a graphic standpoint, being plotted on entirely different sets of axes
having completely different meanings.

© The horizontal axis of the Periodogram represents wave period; the
horizontal axis of the price-bar plot represents calendar time. The vertical
axis of the Periodogram represents wave amplitude; the vertical axis of the
price-bar plot represents stock or commodity price.

@ The fact that a certain price bar may fall on the same vertical grid line
as one of the Periodogram lines below it does not in any way imply a
relationship between them.

 

@ Just above the Periodogram there is a row of numbers across the chart.
These numbers, marking every tenth grid line, serve as a time scale for
the chart. This time scale is convenient for measuring wave period sam-
ples marked on strips of scratch paper. It will also be used throughout
the training course when it is desirable to refer to specific time locations.

 

© A volatility index appears in the upper right corner of each Cyclitee
chart, This index is a measure of the relative rapidity with which prices

for the equity being plotted tend to change.
© On daily Cyclitec charts the sequence of price bars has gaps, ov missing
price bars, for all days on which the auction market for that equity was

not open for trading. These gaps are left because cyclic principles operate
alendar time, without regard for whether the market is open or closed.

Failure to provide a time space for the days on which a market is closed
distortion of the wave information, particularly for the

 

 

would resul
shorter-period waves.

© All Cyclitec charts contain a Dominancy Envelope, which is a pait of
smooth dotted curves on the upper and lower sides of the price movement.

Page 29-———

 


 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
 
 
 

SOME FEATURES OF CYCLITEC STOCK AND
COMMODITY CHARTS continued
This envelope encloses most of the price bars within a constant-height
channel. It contains within it the wave movements in the price action
that are most visually evident, that dominate the visual appearance of the

price plot.

  

© The Dominancy Envelope has a centerline that is plotted as a solid line.
‘This centerline tends to represent the trend underlying the dominant
price wave for each chart.

@ The Dominancy Envelope serves as a bridge between the initial cyclic
model and actual price movement. Its function in this capacity will be
discussed in a following section.

© Please examine carefully the typical Cyclitee Services daily price chart
shown in figure 3-14 in order to completely familiarize yourself with the
items just discussed:

a. The Periodogram

b, The Dominancy Envelope

c. The centerline of the Dominancy Envelope

d. The missing price bars on weekends and holidays
e. The volatility index.

@ When you have finished your study of figure 3-14,
PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

Paasasoy SISTA TY
‘Uy Ss94g $19P84] C161 @ WBEAdOD


 

€ € €

 

   

LTR WEEK ENDING: 25 AUG 1972 DAILY Vous2.1
nicer symone r = vee mane “ |
Flouneam i i
‘TYPICAL cvcLITHewEdvices wAILy enane [> MOATMINYINDEK A | ay

   
 

‘AVERAGE PRICE INDICATED
BY DOT ON PRICE SAR i

DOMINANCY snvjiore

| i DATA GAP

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

   

 
 

 
 

 
  

Nu

    

HM
TROUGH LOCATION BY FLD’s IN PAST TIME

© FLD’s may be used in past time to aid in the location of price lows or
highs associated with suspected wave troughs or crests.

 

Ml LESSON

© For this FLD application, a highly accurate estimate of wave period is
not necessary. Instead, whatever is the best available estimate of wave
period is used. This may be a Periodogram indication, the nominal model
period, or even a combination of these (formed by averaging the two).

@ Because the wave period estimate is known to be inaccurate, the FLD
number used does not need to be extremely accurate but is simply one-
half of the estimated wave period. There is no need to add one or to
round this number to a whole number for this usage.

   

@ The FLD number is laid out on a strip of scratch paper using the time
scale on the Cyclitec chart as a measure.

© The left-hand mark on the strip is passed roughly through price aver-
ages with the strip kept essentially horizontal. Minor fluctuations of the
price averages are not important in this application. The eye tracks the
movement of the right-hand mark until it is clear that price intersection
would have occurred if the FLD had been drawn.

@ A light mark is then placed on the chart approximately at the time lo-
cation of the indicated break

© The time span on the paper strip is then used to measure into the past the
time interval during which a price low or high corresponding to the sus-
pected wave trough or crest is likely to have occurred.

@ Please turn to figure 3-15 for an example of this process. Here it is noticed
that the Periodogram indication related to the nominal 80-day wave is
76 days. It is a reasonable assumption that the average of the nominal-
model and Periodogram estimates of period is a better criteria than either
alone because no other evidence is available tending to favor one over
the other. (Note: Such an assumption is only valid until further evidence
is at hand, as from a phasing analysis.)

© The average of 76 and 80 days is'78 days (obtained by adding 76 and
80 and then dividing by 2),

ge 52


 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

TROUGH LOCATION BY FLD’‘s IN PAST TIME continued

@ The tentative FLD number derived from this period estimate for the
purpose of trough or crest location is just one-half of 78 days, or 39 days.

 

© In figure 3-15, four consecutive positions of a paper strip are shown,
with the time between arrows on the strip being 39 days. The left-hand
dashed line shows the path that the left-hand arrow on the strip took as,
the strip was moved along the general path of the price averages. As the
paper strip was moved from position (1) to position (2) to position (3) to
position (4), the right-hand dashed line shows the path that the right-
hand arrow traversed.

© This right-hand dashed line would not ordinarily be drawn. (It was shown
in this figure only for purposes of illustration.) Instead, it would simply
have been noted by eye that a downward price break took place between
strip positions (3) and (4). Then backtracking with the strip would have
permitted a mark at the approximate price-break time location (some-
where between grid lines 105 and 110).

 

@ Because this was a downward break, the highest price high in the (ap-
proximately) 40 weeks preceding the region of the break would have a
high likelihood of being associated with a crest of the (nominal) 80-day
wave.

 

@ Exercise: Use the same 78-day initial period estimate to provide evidence
that the price lows at grid lines 42 and 123 are very likely associated with
two consecutive troughs of the 80-day wave.

© Exercise: Repeat the above exercise using the Periodogram estimate of
76 days as the basis for the same two trough locations.

© Exercise: repeat the above exercise using the nominal-model estimate of
80 days as the basis for the same two trough locations.

@ What conclusion do you draw from these exercises? Why can you con-
clude that the two trough locations found are consecutive troughs of the
80-day wave?

© Complete the exercises, working on the chart of figure 3-15, and an-
swer the above two questions to the best of your ability before reading
the following discussion,

Page 33 ———__—_—___—_—$—$_$_$______—

 

er)

‘uy ‘Ss94q S19PRA, EL6T @ 14BLAAdO->


Lights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

   
 

 
    

HE
cones TTL LL

 

TROUGH LOCATION BY FLD’s IN PAST TIME continued

@ Because all three period estimates confirm the same time locations for
the wave troughs, it can be concluded that this FLD application is reas-
onably tolerant of error in the period estimate. This is the basis for the
ability of FLD’s to start from a rough (and probably incorrect) period
estimate and provide useful evidence of wave troughs. These wave troughs
then provide period samples which can be averaged to obtain a refined
(more accurate) estimate of period.

 

‘The two troughs found are considered to be consecutive troughs on the
basis of the following points of evidence:

1. Only one FLD-confirmed crest is located between the two troughs.

2. The two troughs are located the expected time distance apart (in
this case 81 days).

3. In relation to the price action the FLD action across the time span
between the two troughs behaves in the one-half-period-phase-
difference manner to be expected if one and only one cycle of the
wave in question exists between the troughs. (Refer to figure 2-15
in lesson two.)

@ This FLD application is very important. If you experienced any difficulty
in locating these two troughs on your own, you should reset your tape
unit to the start of the section-seven discussion and study both recording
and text until the method presented is clear to you,

  

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

ge 3


 

€

30 MAR 1973 DAILY

   
  
  

PRO WEEK ENDING:

FIGURE 3.15
EXAMPLE AND EXERCISE USING FLD’S IN PAST TIME

 

|
|

  
 

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SRS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

so 7 eb 780 zo
t

 

 

ili

re ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9b 180 if0 120 140 140 180 180 170

 

 

40 45 50 65 6D 6 OTD
DAYS

S$ 1D 15 2 25 30 35


 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
W Rights Reserved

      

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

HH}
fi

     

 

I TW LESSON
TE AAT
INTRODUCTION TO PHASING ANALYSIS

@ An accurate current cyclic model is the basis for all trading and invest-
ment decisions.

© The current cyclic model is derived in several steps. First, an initial cyclic
model is formed using basic cyclic concepts and the Periodogram.

The initial cyclic model is then used as a guide in the execution of a
phasing analysis, which identifies the time locations of wave troughs.

Finally, information is extracted from the phasing analysis to form the
current cyclic model, which is a tabulation of the best possible estimate
of the current period and phase of each wave in the initial cyclic model.

 

© Phasing analysis is of key importance in setting up the current cyclic
model. Phasing analysis is not a mechanical process, although useful
procedural guidelines are available. The technique of phasing analysis
consists of using basic cyclic concepts, computer-generated aids, and
graphical methods rooted in cyclic concepts to compile evidence that
leads to conclusions regarding the time location of wave troughs. The
art of phasing analysis lies in the individual's ability to apply cyclic con-
cepts and methods in such a way as to extract the most meaningful wave
evidence from price data.

  

© Phasing analysis is always started with the longest chart on hand for the
equity of interest. In the case of Cyclitee charts, this would be the weekly
chart for stocks and commodities, and the monthly chart for the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.

   

© Similarly, for a given chart, phasing analysis
the longer period waves.

always started with one of

@ Phasing analysis consists of several types of activities:

1, Phasing analysis entry, in which trough positions are located for
one of the longer waves

2. Identification of harmonious, synchronous, and non-ambiguous
troughs for all shorter waves

3. Resolution of ambiguities.

 

  
 
  


    

LESSON

     

 
  

pus CYCLITEC
Heth | eaaiains
MiiiTl!) CouRseo

 

INTRODUCTION TO PHASING ANALYSIS continued
© The results of a phasing analysis are the time locations of all troughs
of all waves of the cyclic model.

© Phasing analysis results are recorded directly on the chart being phased
in the form of several horizontal rows of diamond-shaped marks.

© Each diamond has its vertical points located on the time position esti-
mated for a wave trough.

@ Each row corresponds to one wave in the cyclic model, with the topmost
row representing the longest wave under consideration.

© Successively lower rows represent successively shorter waves.

@ A phasing analysis entry can be made in several ways. The purpose is to
establish a time position for one or more troughs of one of the longest
waves identifiable on a given chart (the longer the better).

© Once an entry is made by identifying one or more troughs of a long wave,
then phasing diamonds for the next shorter wave are placed at the same
time positions. This can be done because the Principles of Harmonicity
and Synchronicity tell us that if the trough positions of a given wave are
known then it follows that all shorter waves have troughs at the same

¢ locations, It is important to note that the opposite is not true. That

is, if the trough locations of a given wave are known, it does nor follow

that any /onger wave necessarily has a trough position at any one of these

same times.

 

© ‘The most important principle of phasing analysis is this: Always phase
the most well-defined situations first — and pass by those situations that
are not cleat. In this way evidence continues to build based on the strong
indications. And the more such evidence builds, the more easily the basic
cyclic principles can be used to resolve the ambiguous situations initially
passed by.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

  

Page 7]

poasasoy siy8na IY

“uy 'ssaug su9pesy E161 @ IWBIAKdo


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Alll Rights Reserved

    

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 

il

      

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS

©@ To enter a phasing analysis means to find evidence in price movement
of one or more troughs of a wave close to the longest wave the chart is
capable of displaying.

© A number of methods for phasing analysis entry are possible. In some
situations, several entry techniques may be needed in order to supply sat-
isfactory evidence of the desired wave troughs.

© The most generally useful phasing analysis entry employs the character-
istics of the Dominancy Envelope and its centerline. These function as
wave-period dividers.

@ The Dominancy Envelope contains a longest wave, called the dominant
component or dominant wave, summed together with all shorter waves in
price movement.

© The Dominancy Envelope centerline consists of the next longer wave
than the dominant wave, called the pre-dominant wave, summed together
with all longer waves in price movement.

© The two parts into which price movement is so divided are each true
composite waves, but each is greatly simplified by comparison with the
total composite wave that is price movement. This effect makes visual
wave identification in each part simpler than in total price movement
itself.

© The composite wave contained within the Dominancy Envelope is useful

for separating out the shorter waves.

 

© The Dominancy Envelope centerline is useful for separating out the long-
er waves.

© The oscillations of the Dominancy Envelope centerline are smooth, easy
to follow with the eye, and strongly tend to fluctuate in sympathy with
the pre-dominant wave component.

© These oscillations can be observed and rough measurements taken from
low to low and high to high. If these period measurements compare reas-
onably well with expectations from the initial cyclic model, then the most
significant price lows near the centerline lows are very likely to be

Page 38

 


    
  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

associated with troughs of the pre-dominant wave. These characteristics
make the Dominaney Envelope centerline ideally suited as a means of
entering a phasing analysis.

© Other phasing analysis entry methods include use of FLD’s in past time
to give evidence of long-wave troughs; direct comparison of initial cyclic
model period estimates with price movement; and use of knowledge of
the longest wave for which a full cycle can be displayed on a given chart.
In this latter method, the probabilities favor that the lowest price low on
the chart is associated with a trough of the longest wave that the chart
can display.

© In this lesson, emphasis will be placed on the use of the Dominancy Envel-
ope centerline as the means of entry into a phasing analysis.

@ Please refer back to figure 3-14 in section six. This is a Cyclitec daily
chart for Loews Corporation (ticker symbol LTR) as of Friday, the 25th
of August, 1972.

© Note the time scale printed on the chart. This is the row of numbers
from 10 to 200 just above the Periodogram. We will be referring to vari-
ous price bars on the chart by their grid line number taken from this
time scale. For example, the price bar for the date of the chart is the
last price bar to the right, located at grid line number 179.

 

© To demonstrate the Dominancy Envelope centerline method of entry to
phasing analysis, an initial cyclic model is needed. Construct this model
for the chart of figure 3-14 as an exercise using the transaction analysis,
form of figure 3-16.

© Now note the Dominancy Envelope centerline fluctuations of figure 3-14.
Starting at the left, a first indication of a centerline low is seen at about
grid line 20. The next one to the right is seen at grid line 71 or 72. A third
low shows at grid line 121. There may be another low forming about
grid line 165, but since this is not a certainty as yet, this indication should
not be counted on, (Actually, the evidence is present on this chart that this
latter low has indeed occurred. The methods for resolving such situations
will be covered in subsequent lessons.)

—— Page 39

paasasoy siya IV
‘suy ‘ssoag S19p EL] EL61 @ WYUKdOD


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

© Similarly, note the Dominancy Envelope centerline highs at grid lines
13, 45, 92, and 133.

© Lay out measurements from low to low and high to high of ali of these
centerline fluctuations on a strip of scratch paper. Compare the periods
represented by the marks grouped on the right-hand side of this strip with
the time scale. Note the range of time values involved. Now compare
these period estimates with the shape of the Periodogram over this period
region. Also compare the range obtained with your initial cyclic model.
You should gain some distinct impressions of the nature of the pre-
dominant wave of figure 3-14.

© Now select a horizontal chart grid line close below the lowest price low
on figure 3-14 on which to place the pre-dominant wave phasing
monds. Locate the most visually significant price lows in the vicinity of
the Dominancy Envelope centerline lows located earlier. On the selec-
ted horizontal grid line place a diamond at the time location of each of
these price lows. These are your best initial estimates of the locations in
time of the pre-dominant wave troughs for this chart.

 

© As additional practice, confirm as many of the pre-dominant wave
troughs as possible using FLD’s in past time.

© Now turn to figure 3-17 and check the results you obtained in these
exercises.

© It is most important to be able to obtain correct results on the entry to
a phasing analysis. To be sure a thorough understanding of this process
has been obtained, let's highlight the essential points and undertake a
second exercise.

© Two principle approaches are possible using the Dominancy Envelope
centerline entry. There are times when one of these applies better to a
given situation than the other.

1. Note the fluctuations of the Dominancy Envelope centerline and
the approximate time positions of the lows and highs of these fluc-
tuations. Compare a rough measurement of the suspected wave
period (from low to low and high to high of these centerline fluctua-
tions) with expected periods from the initial cyclic model. If the


  

  

LESSON

x)

i oH tH 1 A i

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
centerline results are confirmed, place phasing diamonds on the grid
lines of the lowest price lows near the centerline lows noted. Confirm
these estimated wave-trough positions by the use of FLD’s in past
time whenever possible.

2. By trial and error compare expected wave periods from the initial
cyclic model with Dominancy Envelope centerline fluctuations un-
til a reasonable match is achieved. Proceed to place phasing dia-
monds and test with FLD’s as before.

© Now turn to figure 3-18. This is a weekly chart of Pacific Southwest
Airlines (PSA) as of 22 September 1972. Use the transaction analysis
form of figure 3-19 to form an initial cyclic model for this chart. Then
use both versions of the Dominancy Envelope centerline method of entry
to accomplish the placement of phasing diamonds for the pre-dominant
wave.

© Now find the number of weeks elapsed between consecutive identified
troughs. The resulting numbers are called wave period samples. Average
these wave period samples (add the samples together and divide by the
number of samples).

@ Mark on the Periodogram scale the period thus obtained and compare
it with the location of the corresponding Periodogram peak.

© From current time, count the number of weeks that have elapsed since
the last trough of this wave (current time is the time of the last price bar
on the right).

@ How many more weeks is it likely to be before this wave forms another
trough?

 

© Would you expect this trough to occur in exactly this number of addi
onal weeks?

© Write down your answers to these questions, and check your results
against the correct answers given in the following paragraph.

0g {$$$ $ — —$

paasasoy Swy8R IY

‘UL 's8a4d S1OPHAL €L61 @ BUA


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

     
    

eveutee TTI ES
TRAINING | (tl | ir 3

 

ttl

COURSEO

    

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
© Answers for the exercise of figure 3-18:

1. Initial cyclic model

 

 

 

Nominal Periodogram Relative Strength
———  O—ee
68 W Medium
18 M; 78 W
ow Medium
———
9M; 39 W aw Strong
a
24Ww Strong
20 Ww
18 W Minor
ee
Ww Minor
10 W
8w Strong

a
2. Grid lines of phasing diamonds — 15, 69, 136
3. Average period — 60.5 weeks
4. 60.5-week average period versus 62.0-week Periodogram peak
5. Time elapsed since last wave trough — 43 weeks
6. Next trough expected in about — 17.5 weeks
7. No, this next trough would not be expected at exactly this time.

© Did you place a phasing diamond at grid line 58 instead of 69? If so,
did this change the average period you obtained for this wave?

Ina case such as this, you could have omitted this more controversial
phasing diamond for the moment, counting the resulting longer interval
as two samples so as to obtain the correct average period. Continuing the
phasing analysis by going to the next shorter wave would eventually have
led to a correct placement at grid line 69.

 

$$ ge 12.


   

    

        
 
 

CYCLITEC )
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

mo
NOL

eM tte

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
© Does a past-time FLD test supply any confirming or additional infor-
mation on this phasing entry?

    

 

 

© Figure 3-20 is a daily chart of PSA for the same date. Using the trans-
action analysis form of figure 3-19, perform the following exercises:

pansasoy stan
“uy ‘ssaug s29p84], €161 @ BEKO

1, Form the initial cyclic model.

2. Use both Dominancy Envelope centerline entry methods to locate
pre-dominant wave phasing diamonds.

3. Find the number of days elapsed between consecutive troughs lo-
cated, and average the results.

4, Mark on the Periodogram scale the average period obtained and
compare with the associated Periodogram peak.

5, Count the days that have elapsed since the last price low associ-
ated with this wave.

6. How many more days is it likely to be before this wave forms another
trough?

© Check your answers against the correct answers given in the following
paragraph.

© Answers for the exercise of figure 3-20:
1. Initial. cyclic model

 

Nominal Periodogram Relative Strength
—————
83D Minor
80D
%D Strong
—_
40D 32D Strong
—_—_—_—
2D 18D Strong
—_—_—_—— ee
10D 8D Medium

eee

Page 43 $$


 

 

Rights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
 

 
 

     

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
2. Grid lines of phasing diamonds — 43, 94, 149

 

it
HH

3. Average period — 53.0 days
4, 53.0-day average period versus 56.0-day Periodogram peak
5. Time elapsed since last wave trough — 30 days
6. Next trough expected in about — 23 days.
@ When you have completed your study of figures 3-18 and 3-20,
PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 
      

i
il

 

 

HI LESSON

eee ge 4#


       
  

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, I
All Rights Reserved

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (WEEKLY)

TRANSACTION ANALYSIS FORM _

 

TICKER

 

 

 

DATE - - sya

 

 

FOR ‘CONTRACT
COMMODITIES: V* MONTH

 

 

 

 

  

 

  

BUY SITUATION

 

PERIODOGRAM

COMMENTS

 

 

seu toss
PR_| % Gross.

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

s/s/s/</<|s|</s|=

 

 

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (DAILY)
PERIODOGRAM

 
  
  

 

COMMENTS

 

 

  

   

FOR COMMODITIES
100 x (S.

oe « 100 (S =|

Mw

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘SELL SITUATION _

cover___toss

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sevisvort | pr | % GROSS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(PRxSU+C
SPR et

 

 

 

 

   
 
  

 

 

FOR COMMODITIES
100 x (SS-C) xv
% an

 

 

 

 
 

+ FOR COMMODITIES

  
 

V IS VALUE OF 14 MOVE
MIS MARGIN REQUIRED

 

 

 

 

Page 45

   

 


€ € €

 

UTR WEEK ENDING: 25 AUG 1972 Barly | VOL32<1
prourean) ff tT :
EXERCISE RESULTS FoR FIOURESC oh Sis fat,
eee aal :

 

TRITIAL CYCLIC MODEL DAILY)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

€ € €

 

 

PSA WEEK ENDING: 22 SEP 1972 WEEKLY VOL=3.8
ante a rare tr weeny ratooueu? wate 5
¥ =
| .
! ' " I, *
; ‘ ‘ .
i Ey
i :

if

=
8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E lll | A ii duit

 


TRANSACTION ANALYSIS FORM

 

  
   

   

  

 

 

 

     
  

 

 

TickER
Date —— ———__symeou_
Copy FOR CONTRACT
Copyright © 1973 Traders Press Ine.
prright © 1973 Traders F 1 COMMODITIES: V M

  
   

 

All Rights Reserved

 

 

  
  

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (WEEKLY)

NOMINAL | PERIODOGRAM COMMENTS
3L ——

 

    

 

 

 

 

    

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

je /])=/</s\s/</</=

 

 

 

    

   

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (DAILY)
PERIODOGRAM COMMENTS

   

 

    

(PR xSL) +S
BPR TT

100 x (S- 8)

 

 
 
 
 

  

FOR COMMODITIES
100 x (S - B)x V
%
Mw

 
 
   

 

 

     

 

     

 

 

 

      
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D
° o SELL SITUATION
° D = cover
OL of ~}) [-seutsont | enn onoss
° ot
CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL ”
Nomivac [ ACTUAL | PHASE — [sTaTUS[ FLO NUMBER
SL | WEEKS DAYS
18M(78W) | - _
oMi3owi | | :
20W | _
800 I _ _
400

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR COMMODITIES

-100x(SS-C) xv
M

   
    

 

%

 
 
   
  

. FOR COMMODITIES

V Is VALUE OF 14 MOVE
M IS MARGIN REQUIRED

 

    
 
 
 
 

 

ALL PRICES EXPRESSED IN CENTS,

 

 

 
 
 

FIGURE 3-19

 

Page 48


€

 

 

 

 

 

WEEK ENDING: 22 SEP 1972 DAILY

FIGURE 3.20

 

EXERCISE IN PHASING THE DAILY PREDOMINANT WAVE ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 


W Rights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

   

TTS
|leeren te}
TAT
EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS

@ In entering a phasing analysis, attention is concentrated on the fluctu-
ations of the composite wave represented by the Dominancy Envelope
centerline.

@ In extending a phasing analysis, attention is concentrated on the price
movement within the Dominancy Envelope and fluctuating about the
Dominancy Envelope centerline.

@ The function of the Dominancy Envelope and its centerline as a wave-
period divider should be thoroughly understood and kept in mind
throughout the phasing process. Reference to a price movement Period-
‘ogram can help in this understanding.

©@ Figure 3-21 is such a Periodogram. The vertical dashed line represents a
design characteristic of the computer program which produces the Dom-
inancy Envelope. For the design indicated in this figure, waves repre-
sented by Periodogram peaks A and B, plus all shorter price waves not
shown by the Periodogram, constitute the part of price movement con-
tained in the Dominancy Envelope.

 

 

 

Similarly, waves indicated by Periodogram peaks C and D, plus all long-
er price waves not shown by the Periodogram, constitute the part of
price movement represented by the Dominancy Envelope centerline.

© From this figure it is readily seen that the Dominancy Envelope center-
line is the trend underlying the longest wave contained by the Domin-
ancy Envelope (in this case, wave B).

  

© After entering a phasing analysis by identifying a suitably long wave,
the phasing analysis extension takes place in four steps:

1. Next-shorter wave diamonds are automatically placed at the same
time locations as the diamonds for the wave just previously phased.
‘The justification for this step is the combined effect of the Principles
of Synchronicity and Harmonicity.

2. The price movement between each set of consecutive troughs of
the next longer wave is searched for visual evidence of a trough ap-
proximately midway between. This process can be assisted by direct
comparison with initial cyclic model estimates. Phasing diamonds
are placed to mark any troughs identified.

$$ Prige 50

  


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

  

ee trie

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

As in the preceding step, the justification is the combined effect of
the Principles of Synchronicity and Harmonicity.

3. Price movement is explored to the left and to the right of identified
next-longer wave troughs for which no consecutive diamond is avail-
able in the direction explored. Phasing diamonds are placed where
there is visual evidence of a trough at approximately the expected
period. The period estimates of the initial cyclic model augmented
by the period samples gained in step 2 are used as a guide.

4. When no further troughs of the next longer wave are available to
work from, direct comparison of the expected period is made against
raw price data. All period samples obtained up to this point are
used in the comparison.

© Whenever direct comparison is called for, it is made using a measuring
strip constructed from scratch paper as shown below.

—— Prtied Sampres

 

  

Reference. Nominal Model Periodogram
Mark Estimate Estimate

© In all steps, the ambiguous trough locations are left for resolution until
more evidence is added by phasing successively shorter waves.

© The procedure just described uses ordered steps so that those troughs for
which the most decisive evidence is available are identified early in the
procedure. The troughs located in this way then provide period samples
which increase the validity of subsequent selections.

© The application of cyclic concepts and methods to phasing analysis is best
learned by doing. In this lesson you will be guided through a phasing
analysis for the copper example of lesson number one. Following lessons
will provide multiple opportunities for the finer points of phasing anal-
ysis to be learned.

a Page S$

paasasoy siyBPL HY
“Uy ‘sS94g S1PPEAL C161 @ BUAdOD


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

 
  

 

2
Cee TITHE FAN

 

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
igure 3-23 is a weekly chart for copper as of 10 November 1972. As an
exercise, generate the weekly initial cyclic model in the manner you have
learned, recording it on the transaction analysis form provided in figure
3-22.

(Note: For the moment, ignore the spaces on the transaction analysis,
form marked ZL. The meaning and use of this symbol will be described
in a later section.)

 

Now enter the phasing analysis by phasing the pre-dominant component.

Complete this exercise before referring to the following discussion or
to figure 3-24 where the correct results are shown,

Setting Up The Initial Cyclic Model Weekly]:

© Only one decision is required in setting up this initial cyclic model, and
that is whether to accept the 44-week or the 58-week Periodogram indica-
tion as a representation of the 9-month wave. The cyclic arguments, pro
and con, would go as follows:

Favoring the 58-week peak
1. A tendency is shown in the Periodogram for all waves to be consid-
erably longer than nominal expectations (12 weeks versus 10 weeks;
28 weeks versus 20 weeks).
2. The 12-week and 28-week peaks establish a ratio near 2 to 1, leading
to an expectation for the next longer wave to be 56 weeks (twice 28).
This is closer to 58 weeks than to 44 weeks.

 

3. The Periodogram shows normal strength for the 58-week peak and
weak strength for the 44-week peak (as noted in the comments
column).

Favoring the 44-week peak

1. The Periodogram indication for the 18-month wave is 79 weeks.
This would lead to an expectation of one-half of this, or 39.5 weeks,
for the next shorter wave. This is closer to 44 weeks than to 58
weeks.

Page 52,

 

 


  

  

Page 53,

ee tiem

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  
   

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
2. The 44-week Periodogram peak is closer to nominal (39 weeks) than
is 58 weeks.
‘The evidence would slightly favor retention of the 58-week Periodogram
estimate. However, a wide tolerance for error is acceptable in the initial
cyclic model. You would find that if you retained the 44-week estimate
instead, the final phasing analysis results would be the same.

 

@ In fact, there wotild be nothing wrong with accepting the entire range
from 39 weeks (nominal) to 58 weeks as the initial estimate of the (nom-
inal) 9-month wave period.

© This situation is discussed at some length here, not because of its impor-
tance in this particular case, but because it is a good example of how
cyclic-concept arguments can be built up for or against a given hypoth-
esis. This procedure is one that you should become accustomed to. It
amounts to building a case by compiling bits of evidence from several
sources in order to reach a conclusion or to resolve an ambiguity.

‘cussion that follows pertains to entering the phasing analysis by

 

@ The

phasing the pre-dominant wave using the Dominancy Envelope centerline.

© Observation of the fluctuations of the Dominancy Envelope centerline
identifies two clear-cut lows at grid lines 82 and 128. There is also evi-
dence of an attempt by the centerline to form a low at about grid line
32.

@ Highs of the Dominancy Envelope centerline fluctuations can be seen at
grid lines 40, 100, and 147 (approximately).

© Measurements from low to low and high to high result in a set of period
estimates ranging from 46 to 60 weeks. Comparison of this range with
the initial cyclic model results in the conclusion that the Dominancy
Envelope centerline is oscillating in sympathy with the (nominal) 9-month
wave.

© A typical measuring strip with centerline low-to-low and high-to-high
‘measurements on it along with the corresponding nominal and Period-
‘ogram period estimates from the initial cyclic model is shown at B on
figure 3-24.

 

Paasasay siyary IY
“uy ssoag S49P841 C161 @ IBIAKdoD


Nights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All

  
   

    

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 

WU
PHT

ly nell i
EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

© The measuring strip at A of figure 3-24 is an indication of how well the
initial cyclic model served as a guide in phasing the pre-dominant wave
in this case.

       

 

© Finally, the most visually evident price lows in the vicinity of the Dom-
inancy Envelope centerline lows are noted as occurring at grid lines 33, 84
and 129, Pre-dominant wave phasing diamonds are placed at the un-
ambiguous locations at grid lines 84 and 129. The less convincing location
at 33 is best for resolution as the phasing analysis proceeds.

Extending the Phasing Analysis (Phasing the 20-28 week wave):

@ The pre-dominant wave was phased during the entry to phasing analysis
and was found to be the current representation of the nominal 9-month
wave. Now you should attempt to extend the analysis by phasing the next
shorter wave of the initial cyclic model, the 20-28 week wave. Do this
using the four steps previously described before referring to the follow-
ing discussion or to the correct results shown in figure 3-25.

© The first step in phasing the 20-28 week wave is to locate phasing dia
monds for this wave directly under the diamonds placed for the next
longer wave (in this case the pre-dominant component). This places
diamonds, as shown hollow in figure 3-25, at grid lines 84 and 129.

© In the second step, evidence of a 20-28 week wave trough is sought half-
way between each set of consecutive troughs of the next longer wave. In
this case only one such set exists; namely, the pre-dominant wave dia-
monds at 84 and 129. At A in figure 3-25 a measuring st is shown in
the proper exploratory position and with the period estimates of the
initial cyclic model marked on it.

 

© The most significant price movement between grid lines 84 and 129 does
indeed fall in the anticipated time region. However, either of two price
lows, located at grid lines 104 and 108, could be selected as the proper
one. If these had been widely separated, the situation would have been
left for later resolution. But because they are quite close together, they
can be marked with X's (as possible) in order to establish rough period
samples early in the analysis.

 


  

LESSON

3

  

 

     

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

   

UNI
dliiidd

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

@ Since this exhausts the available consecutive trough sets, step 3 is under-
taken. The measuring strip from A is augmented by period samples taken
from grid lines 84 to 104, 84 to 108, 104 to 129, and 108 to 129 (as indi-
cated at B and C in figure 3-25).

“The augmented strip is then used as a guide in searching to the left of
the diamond at 84. This search does not result in a sufficiently dis-
tinctive price low to warrant placement of a phasing diamond.

@ Search to the right of the diamond at 129 reveals two widely separated
possibles at grid lines 150 and 160. This degree of ambiguity is suffici-
ent to warrant delay in placing a phasing diamond until more evidence is
obtained later in the analysis. Thus, step 3 does not result in any trough
locations in this example.

@ Step 4 is then undertaken by comparing the augmented measuring strip
(of C) directly to price movement.

Only one instance is found where sufficient evidence exists to warrant
placement of diamonds (see location D in figure 3-25). The price swings
involved are large enough to warrant this placement; and the remaining
space between grid lines 33 and 84 is just about twice the period of the
wave under consideration, implying the probable existence of a trough
(to be located later) between these grid line locations.

© This final sample is then added to the strip, which assumes the configur-
ation shown at E in figure 3-25. Comparison of the resulting range of
period estimates with the Periodogram shape and the initial cyclic model
then adds reassurance that reasonable trough locations have been found
for this wave.
@ Note: It could be argued that the placement of a diamond for this wave
at grid line number 3 is risky because of the proximity of the
left edge of the chart. In such cases it is always possible that a
more promising potential trough location could be noted to the
left of 3 if several more weeks of data were displayed.

The placement of a diamond at 3 could be delayed for this reason,
although the placement at 33 would still be valid. If the placement
at 3 were to be delayed, phasing of the shorter waves would eventu-
ally resolve the situation.

Page 55.

paaiasoy S430 TY
“Day ‘ss94q Ss9pe4, £161 @ WBKdOD


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

  

 

eee OS
Ceneys | MCT

   

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
On the other hand, if a placement is made at 3 now, phasing
of the shorter waves will eventually prove or disprove this choice
for us. For this example, it was elected to place this diamond at
this stage of the analysis.

  

© You are now ready to extend the phasing analysis further by phasing the
10-12 week wave. The process should take place in the same four steps
that were used in the 20-28 week extension. Complete the 10-12 week
extension on figure 3-23 before consulting the following discussion and
the correct results shown in figure 3-26.

© The first step is to place phasing diamonds for this wave beneath each of
the diamonds of the next longer wave (in this case, the 20-28 week wave).
This results in diamonds at grid lines 3, 33, 84, and 129.

© In step two there is only one set of consecutive troughs available from
phasing the 20-28 week wave. These are indicated by the diamonds at 3
and 33. The expectation is that the most visually obvious price low be-
tween these locations should occur at about the half-way point; should
compare well with a measuring strip showing initial cyclic model esti-
mates; and should be due to a trough of the 10-12 week wave. These con-
siderations locate a diamond at 19, which provides 2 period samples to
add to the measuring strip.

© In step three the measuring strip is first used to the right of the diamond
at 33, resulting in placement of a diamond at 51. Similar measurement to
the left of the existing diamond at 84 results in another placement at 72.
Search to the right of 84 does not produce a result, so search is instigated
to the left of 129. This results in a diamond placement at 122. A final
search to the right of the diamond at 129 places a new diamond at 140.

 

© ‘The diamond placements at grid lines 51, 72, and 140 will be seen to be
shifted slightly in position from the actual price lows. The amounts of
shift involved are not critical, and placement at the actual price lows at
grid lines $3, 73, and 137 or 138 would not change the end result. How-
ever, sufficient information exists in the data to warrant the placement
shown, and discussion of the fiictors involved and how to judge them will
appear in a later section.

ss rg 56


 

HN CYCLITEC
SERVICES
ann HH Y TRAINING

hin COURSEO

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
@ You are now ready to embark on step four. Your measuring strip, besides
showing the nominal and Periodogram estimates from the initial cyclic

model, should now show six period sample measurements. With this aug-
mented measuring strip, direct comparison with price data is started.
© The simplest new location is found at grid line 62 as a result of search-
ing to the right of S1 and to the left of 72. Then a search to the left from
122 places a diamond at 108. Moving to the right of 140, the diamond
at 150 is readily located. This permits additional search to the right
which locates the diamond at 160. Again, search to the right is indica-
ted and results in a final diamond at 172.
© As each diamond is placed, the associated new period samples are added
to the measuring strip (as shown at A in figure 3-26) before search is
continued.
© Upon completion, the range of period estimates appears as at B in figure
3-26. This range is seen to be compatible with Periodogram shape in
this period region and with the initial cyclic model estimate.
© After you have completed your study of this example of extension of the
phasing analysis,
PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

—— Page 52 ~

Paasosay siuiry ry

1d S29P81] £161 © IyBLAKdo>

uy ss


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

FIGURE 3-21 THE DOMINANCY ENVELOPE AS A WAVE-
PERIOD DIVIDER

    

PERIOD——=

CONTAINED IN THE SUMMED INTO THE
DOMINANCY ENVELOPE DOMINANCY ENVELOPE CENTERLINE

———— ge 53


TRANSACTION ANALYSIS FORM

 

TICKER
SERVIC SYMBOL,

i . FOR
Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc. .
{All Rights Reserved COMMODITIES: _V

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:
jel=
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

s/s/s|s/=

 

 

|

s/s s\s\<\=

 

 

 

els

(PRxSL)+S

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (DAILY) a. PRS

NOMINAL | PERIODOGRAM COMMENTS,

 

100 x (S
8

FOR COMMODITIES
gj = 1001S - B)xV

SELL SITUATION

%

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL,
PHASE [STATU:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(PR x St) +C
ss PR+T

 

100 x (SS -C)
SS

FOR COMMODITIES
M

FOR COMMODITIES

%

 

 

 

V IS VALUE OF 1¢ MOVE
M IS MARGIN REQUIRED

 

ALL PRICES EXPRESSED IN CENTS.

 

FIGURE 3-22

 

Page 59


 

€ € €

 

   

cop WEEK ENDING: 10 NOV 1972 WEEKLY.

-XERCISE IN PHASING

  
 

 

   

1G ANALYS:

15, WEEKLY CHART, °°

    

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tll Mm

B40 45 a 8 6G

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


€ € €

WEEK ENDING: 10 NOV 1972 WEEKLY

     
 
   

 

 

FicuRE sae”

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL AND PRE.
DOMINANT COMPONENT, WEEKLY CHART. fo") 00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


€ € €

 

[FIBURE;sa
“THE 10:38 WEEK PHASING +

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

€ € €
cop WEEK ENDING: 10 NOV 1972 WEEKLY VOL=1.3

 

FIGURE 3.4
‘THE 10-12 WEEK PHASING ©

 

INITIAL CYCLIC ODA EBL
HOE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

+ + g
+ + xx +
é 6 6 0 6 ¢ 98 6.8 fo
pe ap 4b BD BD oD a 8b 100 110 120 190 340 360 380 170 180 “180 200
or
ssp ull bbb thle
SS Se ee Se ee ee

 

WEEKS


Lights Reserved

1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

z

Copyright ©

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

COMPLETING A PHASING ANALYSIS

@ The skill in phasing analysis lies mostly in the entry and extension por-
tions of the process. Subjective judgements are required here which are
based on familiarity with the basic cyclic concepts and aided by com-
puter-generated graphics.

 

The process of completion is, by contrast, nearly mechanical. It involves

direct application of the Principle of Harmonicity and is spoken of as
filling the harmonic gaps.

 

© Before this procedure can be started, the shortest wave phased in the

extension process must have the locations of all its troughs indicated by
diamonds.

© Usually there will only be a few phasing gaps left for this shortest wave,
and these will be due to the rule that only the more positively evidenced
trough locations be established during the analysis extension. Such gaps
can now be filled, arbitrarily if necessary.

© The justification for this action is the fact that by the time this point in
the analysis is reached, there is a large body of evidence that this wave
is present and active in price movement. Further, it is a known charac-

teristic of complex composite price waves that occasional trough loca-
tions will be obscured.

© However, if numerous gaps exist for this shortest wave, the analysis should
be extended to a still shorter wave in order to amass further evidence.
Phasing analysis is usually extended only to the 10-week wave for weekly
charts or the 10-day wave for daily charts. But there are times when ex-
tension must include the 5-week or 5-day wave in order to satisfy the
information needs of the longer waves.

© On those infrequent occasions when even the S-week or S-day wave can-
not be completely phased, the chart analysis need not necessarily be
abandoned. But such situations will be covered in a later lesson.

© The process of filling the harmonic gaps is begun under conditions such
that there is one shortest wave that is fully phased and a series of longer
waves that are partially phased.

© Working with successively longer waves, we use the Principles of Har-
monicity and Synchronicity to fill phasing gaps on the basis that every

 

 

Page 64

  


  

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

COMPLETING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
other phasing diamond of a given wave must coincide with a phasing
diamond of the next longer wave.

 

LESSON i

© This basis is the general rule. And as with all rules, there are exceptions.
However, these exceptions will be dealt with in lessons to follow.

© Please return to figure 3-23 and complete the phasing analysis of this,
example by applying the method just described. After you have finished,
consult the following discussion and figure 3-27 for comparison with your
own results.

© The first step in the completion process is to look for gaps in the phas-
ing of the 10-12 week wave. It is seen that four of the spacings between
diamonds appear long by comparison with the majority of period samples
available, These apparent gaps are:

 

1. Grid line 3to 19
2. Grid line 33to 51
3. Grid line 84 to 108
4. Grid line 108 to 122

Let us discuss them in order.

© The first question is: Should another phasing diamond be located be-
tween grid lines 3 and 19? To answer this question it should first be
noted that the quality of the 20-28 week period sample between grid lines
3 and 33 is high. Further, as things now stand there are two samples of
the 10-12 week wave period contained within this single cycle of the 20-28
week wave. This satisfies the requirements of harmonicity; and placement
of a new diamond would force complete reappraisal of the indicated 20-28
week phasing, which appears to be normal.

On this evidence, the decision should be made that the gap between grid
lines 3 and 19 should not be altered.

© Next, consider the gap between grid lines 33 and S1. Four 10-12 week
period samples are now shown between the two 20-28 week diamonds at
33 and 84, leading to the strong suspicion that a 20-28 week diamond
is missing at 62. If a new 10-12 week diamond were placed between 33

Page 65

 

Paasasay Syany IY

“DUT ‘Ss24d SIAPEAL ELE @ WBULdO.


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

  

2
courses (TILL T HI

  

COMPLETING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
and 51, there would be no way that harmonicity could be satisfied with
respect to the 20-28 week wave.

Once again it is concluded that this gap is natural and should not be
filled.

@ Now we come to the gap between grid lines 84 and 108. The 10-12 week

diamonds at 108, 122, and 129 indicate two cycles of this wave, leading
to the strong suspicion that the X mark at 108 should be associated with
a 20-28 week diamond. Since the next diamond to the left for this 20-28
week wave is at 84, harmonicity would require a trough of the 10-12 week
wave between 84 and 108.

‘Thus, the conclusion would be reached that this is a phasing gap that
must be filled.

To do so, select any price dip as close to the center of the space between
84 and 108 as possible and place a 10-12 week diamond at that time
position. In the figure, the diamond is placed at grid line 97.

@ The long space between 108 and 122 is considered next.

‘The reasoning of the last paragraph indicates that only two cycles of the
10-12 week wave should occur between 108 and 129. Further. the cycle of
this wave between 122 and 129 appears to be unusually short, which
would obviously leave the cycle between 108 and 122 unusually long.

The conclusion is that no additional 10-12 week diamond can be added
without disrupting the entire phasing analysis. One other conclusion that
might be drawn is that the actual wave trough probably took place at
about grid line 119 instead of at 122 at best indicated by price movement.

@ These reasoning processes leave the impression that, to the best of our

ability, a fully phased “shortest” wave has been attained and that phasing
of a still shorter wave would not provide any useful additional informa-
tion. Hence the criterion is met for starting the process of filling the har-
monic gaps.

@ This process is begun with the wave next longer than the fully phased one,

or the 20-28 week wave in this example. Working from the left, a dia-
mond for this wave is placed at 62. This placement provides for two cycles

Page 66—_

 

  


  

LESSON lt

  

Page 67.

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

COMPLETING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued
of the 10-12 week wave between the 20-28 week troughs at 33 and 62, and
62 and 84.

Placement of a 20-28 week diamond at 108 results in two cycles of the
10-12 week wave between the 20-28 week troughs at 84 and 108, and 108
and 129.

Similarly, 20-28 week diamonds are required at 150 and 172.

© Once these diamonds are placed, the diamond set for the 20-28 week
wave can be considered complete and can be used to accomplish the

same objective for the next longer (39-58 week) wave. Accordingly, dia-
mond placements for the 39-58 week wave are made at 33 and 172.

 

© The results just described for the process of filling the harmonic gaps
are shown in figure 3-27 for reference and study. The hollow diamonds
are the ones that have been added in the overall process of gap-filling.

@ Observe that on this figure diamonds have also been placed for the (nom-
inal) 18 month wave. A discussion of how this was accomplished follows:

© Recall that a weekly chart shows 180 weeks of data and therefore will
always contain at least one (and perhaps two) nests-of-lows which include
a trough of the 18-month wave. A good general rule of thumb is that the
lowest price low on such a chart is probably associated with an 18-month
trough (although this does not have to be the case).

© In this example, this rule of thumb would lead to the initial suspicion
that the price low at 84 is associated with an 18-month trough.

© This suspicion is confirmed by use of an FLD in past time. The FLD
number could be based on the nominal wave period, the Periodogram
estimate from the initial cyclic model, or an average of these estimates.
However, a more accurate estimate can be formed at this stage of the
phasing analysis by averaging the samples now available for the (nominal)
9-month wave and multiplying by two. This would result in an FLD num-
ber of 47.3 (You should go through this process and arrive at this FLD
number for yourself as an exercise.)
‘The results of this test are shown in figure 3-27. A price high associated

with the 18-month wave is located at 41, and the following 18-month
trough is indicated to be at 84 — as previously suspected.

 

cour ee eed HHH IV
Sur 's824q S19p8} £161  I4SiuKdo-y


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

COMPLETING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

© The resulting placement of an 18-month phasing diamond at 84 is then
followed by a diamond placement at 172 in line with the process of filling
harmonic gaps.

© Figure 3-27 is a completed phasing analysis for a weekly Cyclitee chart.
On this first attempt at the complete phasing analysis of a chart, you
have probably experienced considerable difficulty and been left with a
number of questions in your mind.

 

This is to be expected. The purpose of this lesson is to expose you to the
overall concepts needed in phasing analysis and to provide a first degree

of involvement only.

Successive lessons will provide additional experience in phasing analysis
and additional examples of cyclic logic which result in extraction of new
kinds of information. As you progress through these lessons, the process
of phasing analysis will become first comfortable, then instinctive with
you

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

  

LESSON

3

 

Page 68


 

 

cor WEEK ENDING: 10 NOV 1972 WEEKLY wae

 

 

    
 

 

FIGURE 3.27
FILLING THE HARMONIC GAPS *

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TRIAL CveuIC MODE WERT)

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

ce

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

Tie, Tou we
Fei 3h | Se NOWAL
ie eo "NO bAL
i

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


© 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
I Rights Reserved

 

Copyright

SERVICES
TRAINING

CYCLITEC HA LESSON
COURSEO

 

3

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS

© The process of phasing analysis consists of an entry, several steps of
extension, and completion.

© Entry can be effected in several ways
1, Through the oscillations of the Dominancy Envelope centerline
2. By use of FLD’s in past time

3. By direct comparison of initial cyclic model expectations to price
movement.

@ These entry methods can be combined, thus serving as checks on each
other.

© Extension takes place in four steps:

 

1. Direct application of the Principle of Synchronicity

2. Application of the Principle of Harmonicity and of initial cyclic
model estimates to all sets of consecutive troughs of the next longer
wave

3. Direct comparison of initial cyclic model estimates, augmented by
period samples, to price data on either side of trough diamonds of
the next longer wave

4, Direct comparison of initial cyclic model estimates, augmented by
period samples, to the most visually obvious price oscillations.

© These steps are accomplished in the order stated for each extension of
the phasing analysis to a next shorter wave.

© Completion is started by completely phasing a “shortest” wave. The
phasing gaps for this wave are filled by cyclic logic or by an additional
step of extension (to a still shorter wave). The second step in completion
is called filling the harmonic gaps and is a direct application of the Prin-
ciple of Harmonicity. The filling of harmonic gaps proceeds from shorter
to successively longer waves.

   

@ The process of phasing analysis is an inexact art. This is so because it is

physically impossible to have perfect price movement information and
wave phase information simultaneously.

ge 70.

 


—— Page 71.

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS continued
Part of the art of phasing analysis lies in arriving at best estimates in a
workmanlike manner without excessive concern about the absolute cor-
rectness of the results.

 

@ In a phasing analysis it is vitally important to account for each consecu-
tive wave in the nominal model (making due allowance for the Prin-
ciple of Variation), even if a given wave appears to be weak or inactive
at the time.

@ The time locations of wave troughs and associated price lows do not nec-
essarily coincide. The same is true of the time locations of wave crests
and associated price highs.

 

© This time difference phenomenon is called time translation.

© Time translation, when applied to wave troughs versus price lows, is
called low translation.

© Time translation, when applied to wave crests versus price highs, is called
high translation.

 

@ Knowledge of the effects of time translation can be very useful in the
processes of phasing analysis.

@ The time-translation effect is best understood in relation to ideal price
waves, Please turn back to figure 3-10 in section 4 where three ideal

waves are summed to a composite wave.

©@ In this exercise you were asked to place phasing diamonds at the time
locations of the price wave troughs. In this instance, it was possible for
you to do this exactly, because you knew in advance precisely what waves
formed the composite wave.

@ Ina phasing analysis the situation is reversed. Here you have before you
the composite wave (price) and are required to deduce the trough locations
of constituent waves.

© Ifyou were doing such a phasing analysis on the composite wave of
figure 3-10, you would incorrectly locate a phasing diamond at grid line
17 instead of 16. Similarly, you would incorrectly place a diamond at grid
line 31 instead of 32. That is, you would incorrectly place these diamonds
if you were unaware of the effects of time translation.

 

pouasoy sw v
“sup ss0ug s19pHa EL6I @ WBKIOD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

 

     

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS continued

© The cause of time translation is underlying trend. When the trend under-
lying a wave is down, low translation is to the right and high translation
is to the left. When the trend underlying a wave is up, low translation is
to the left and high translation is to the right.

 

| LESSON

 

@ Examples of both low and high translation are present in the composite
wave of figure 3-10. You should study this figure until you have identified
all the occurrences of time translation and feel that you have a firm grasp
of the concept.

 

igure 3-28 is an excellent example of high translation in actual price
data. At the base of the figure the phasing diamonds for a price wave

are shown, and the wave component so isolated is sketched in. It is clear
in this instance how this wave moved prices both up and down. But notice
how this movement vas combined with trend underlying the wave to dis-
tort the time position of the price highs associated with this wave.

  

xercise: Return to the phasing processes shown in figures 3-24 through
3-26 and identify the cases where you placed phasing diamonds in one lo-
cation and they were shown in another in the discussion and comparison
figures. Resolve in your own mind how knowledge of the time-translation
effect was applied to these situations.

@ With these new ideas and concepts freshly in mind, you should now
experience another example of phasing analysis. Figure 3-29 is a Cyclitee
daily chart of copper as of 24 November 1972, Using the transaction
analysis form of figure 3-22, construct an initial cyclic model for this
chart. Then perform a phasing analysis entry by phasing the pre-dom-
inant wave. Do this as best you can before referring to the following dis-
cussion or to the correct results shown in figure 3-30.

 

© The initial cyclic model presents no ambiguities in this case, but it does
serve notice that current wave periods are running considerably longer
than nominal, It will be remembered that this was also the case in the
weekly chart of copper. That this sheuld be true for both the daily and
the weekly analysis is an expectation based on the Principle of Harmon-
icity and lends credence to the conclusion.

  

 

© In entry to the phasing analysis, attention is first devoted to that part

ge 2

 


   
    

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS continued

of the price action represented by the Dominancy Envelope centerline.
Oscillation lows are noted at grid lines 28, 63, and 129. Oscillation highs
are seen at grid lines 43, 93, and 144, (See arrows at centerline on figure
3:30.)

© Strip measurements from low to low and high to high (shown at A of
figure 3-30) compared with Periodogram shape (as shown by arrows
leading from measuring strip to Periodogram scale) tell us that the pre-
dominant wave producing these centerline oscillations is the 40-50 day
wave of the initial eyclic model.

 

 

@ Of the three Dominancy Envelope centerline lows identified, only the
one at grid line 28 has unambiguous price lows in the vicinity. Accord-
ingly, one diamond placement for the pre-dominant wave is made at grid
line 28. The next centerline low to the right (at 63) could be associ-
ated with one of the price lows at $3, 67, or 80. This is too wide a spread
to permit marking with X's as possibles, so resolution is left for later
in the analysis. A similar situation occurs at the centerline low at 129.
Possibly associated price lows are at 112, 119, 126, and 136. Again the
spread is too wide to be meaningful, and a diamond cannot be placed
with confidence.

© The phasing analysis entry could be terminated at this point with only
a single diamond placed. However, in order to introduce a useful new
idea, a slightly difterent tack will be taken. Following the oscillations of
the Dominancy Envelope to the far right (and confirming impressions
gained by use of the measuring strip), it is seen that at current time the
pre-dominant wave is expected to be in the vicinity of a trough. This
means that the price high at 142 is very probably associated with a wave
crest of the pre-dominant wave. And the price high at 99 is clearly assoe-
iated with the centerline high at 93 and therefore with a pre-dominant
wave crest

‘These price highs then, with a high degree of confidence, form the basis
for a valid downtrend line based on the pre-dominant wave.

Figure 3-30 shows this critical VTL, and we see that it was broken in the
upward direction by prices on the date of the chart. The meaning of
such a break is that the price low at 172 is very likely associated with

Page 73

paazasoy svusra TV

-auy ssaud S208], E161 © WBLAAO:)


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved.

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS continued

a trough of the wave next longer than the pre-dominant wave. The com-
bined effects of the Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity then
assure a trough of the pre-dominant wave at this time also.

@ By this line of cyclic logic, two diamonds are placeable at 172, one for
the pre-dominant wave and one for the next longer wave (the 80-day
wave of the initial cyclic model).

© Thus it is seen that the processes of phasing analysis can be augmented
by cyclic theory and methods in a variety of ways.

© Now, extend the phasing analysis to include the 20-28 day wave of the
initial cyclic model. Do this as best you can before checking your results
with the discussion that follows and with figure 3-31.

© The first step of the extension is to apply the Principle of Synchronicity
directly, resulting in 20-28 day diamonds at 29 and at 172.

© No second step is possible in this extension because of the lack of any
sets of consecutive troughs of the 40-50 day wave.

© A third-step measuring strip search to the left and to the right of the
40-50 day diamond at 29 results in 20-28 day diamond placements at 7
and 53. A search to the right of the diamond just placed at 53 places
a new 20-28 day diamond at 80. (This last diamond is actually a step
four placement and could be delayed if desired until step four is formally
undertaken.) This in turn, by the Principle of Harmonicity, resolves the
ambiguity surrounding the 40-50 day trough associated with the Domin-
ancy Envelope centerline low at 63 so that a 40-50 day diamond also may
be placed at 80. (This placement of a 40-50 day diamond falls in the cate-
gory of filling the harmonic gaps and could, if desired, be left until the
completion stage of the analysis.)

© A search to the left of the 40-50 day diamond at 172 shows widely spaced
possibles at 136 and 154. There is too much doubt here for diamond
placement.

© ‘Step four of the extension (direct comparison of strip measurements to
price data) does not find any additional unambiguous placements, so the
20-28 day extension effort is considered complete.

 

Page 74


  

  

eo

3

—— Page 75.

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS continued

© It will be noted from this discussion that several elements of the various
steps of extension and completion were combined out of sequence. This
was done deliberately as an example of how practice in the formal pro-
cedure of phasing analysis builds up skill so that procedural efficiency can
be improved. As your experience grows, you will find yourself looking
ahead to extract information related to phasing more quickly and effec-
tively. However, when doubt exists, you should always fall back to the
formal rules of phasing analysis to establish a solution.

@ Now extend the phasing analysis to include the 10-16 day wave. Do this
as best you can before referring to the following discussion or to figure
3-32.

© First step extension produces diamond placements at grid lines 7, 29,
53, 80, and 172.

© Second step extension places diamonds at 43 and 67. The possible second
step placement between the consecutive 20-28 day diamonds at 7 and 29
is considered too ambiguous at this point in the analysis.

© Third step extension places a diamond at 93 and another at 154. The
placement at 154 enables a step-four search to the left resulting in an-
other placement at 136.

© Additional third step, and then fourth step, extension attempts run into
ambiguity at grid lines 106, 112, and 119. Resolution of the correct dia-
mond placement in this area is best delayed.

© Note that placement of the 10-16 day diamond at 136 also defines another
20-28 day diamond at the same time (by Harmonicity),

© The ambiguities in the gap between grid lines 93 and 136 are severe
enough to warrant another extension before attempting completion. So
extend the analysis to the 5-8 day wave and complete the analysis by
filling the gaps before consulting the following discussion and figure
3-33. (The 8-day estimate for the 5-8 day wave comes in this case from
one-half of the 16-day period rather than directly from a Periodogram
peak.)

© The extension to the 5-8 day wave is straightforward except for one
point that warrants discussion.

 

paasasoy SmyBR IY
“ouyssaag s49peay EL61 @ 1yBisKdoD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS continued
On a daily chart, a wave trough (and the associated price low) can occur
during a time when the markets are not open (over a weekend, for ex-
ample). This is particularly troublesome when dealing with a wave as
short as S days. When it appears that a wave trough logically falls on a
weekend or holiday, it is quite acceptable to place a diamond for the
associated imaginary price low on the grid line for that weekend day or
holiday. In such cases, diamond placement is made so as to minimize
the variation of the resulting period samples.

   

© Filling of the remaining harmonic gaps proceeds in a straightforward
manner as indicated in figure 3-33.

@ This exercise completes your exposure in this lesson to the process of
phasing analysis. Each step of the process has been explained in elab-
orate detail and you have spent considerable time in the phasing of a
single equity. As your experience grows and your skill increases with
practice, you will find a drastic diminishing of the effort and time in-
volved. Eventually you will find that a complete phasing analysis is
possible in a remarkably short time.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 


€

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WEEK ENDING: 16 MAR 1973 DRILY

FIGURE 326
EXAMPLE OF HIGH TRANSLATION

-—! | THIGH TRANSLATION

t
|
|
|
|
|
I
|
I
|
l

  

 

ull

10

8 DiAve.

\
|
|
|
|
|
+
|
i

sb 40 6 7. eb 9b 100 110 120 180 140 180 do 1% ido ido ado

 

mT

1820 2530 SS AD AB Be s5 60 65 70 76

 

 

 

 

HM

 

 

 

IE

o> 85 90s

 

 


 

€ € €

 

cop. WEEK ENDING: 24 NOV 1972 DAILY yol3i.0
ky i

t |

   
 
  
    

 

FIGURE 3:29
EXERCISE IN PHASING RNKLYS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ll

10 35

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Luh

poll
a


 

€ € €
WEEK ENDING: 24 NOV 1972 DAILY

    
   

 

FIGURE 3:30 i { |
INITIAL CYCLE MODEL-AND HREDOMINANT COMPONENT:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


€ € €

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cop WEEK ENDING: 24 NOV 1972 DAILY VOL=1.0
FIGURE 331
‘THE 20.28 DAY PHASING 0
p01 rads Pre
‘sani Renn AAT EYEE ROOT DAT 8
SORIA peHODDOE| |
an fone
ne |
[oes oar 88

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Foodie ab ab sb “eb 7 ebb ado ade ido Tis “140 ido io 140“ 1d0 ido “Rio

“altuauallll tell

 

 

 

 

 

He

HT

 

 


 

€ € €

 

cop WEEK ENDING: 24 NOV 1972 DAILY

      

VOL31.0

      

FIGURE 3.22
THE 10.16 DAY PHASING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

€ € €
: cop WEEK ENDING: 24 NOV 1972 DAILY VOL=1.0
FE
I Floure 333
COMPLETE PHASING ANALYSIS. 0

 

 

Day]
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

a
=

No

 

 

so 8b 7 eb ab ido tio ido 180 40 “ado ado “140” i
(berths
res ee

valet

40 45 80-55 6 90 85
DAYS


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

     

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

int

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING

ANALYSIS

© During construction of a current cyclic model, work proceeds in several
steps:

Hl rr

   

1, Interpretation of the Periodogram
2. Construction of the initial eyclie model
3. Entry, extension, and completion of a phasing analysis

4. Extraction from the phasing analysis of information on which to
base the current cyclic model.

© The phasing analysis also yields estimates of the probable future times
at which various wave troughs are likely to occur.

© Extraction of information from the phasing analysis also takes place in
several steps:

1, Determination of the average of the period samples for each
wave

2. Determination of the best estimate of wave trough locations in
future time

3. Determination of wave phases (the elapsed time since the last trough
of each wave)

4. Determination of wave directions (the current tendency of each
wave to cause prices to rise or fall),

 

© When extracting information from a phasing analysis, we must treat
commodity analyses somewhat differently from those of stocks. This is
due to the fact that commodity futures contracts for a given contract
month do not exist long enough to generate sufficient price data for
weekly analysis purposes.

© Since it is highly desirable to have a means of estimating long wave
periods, commodity weekly charts are generated from price information
that is considered to be suitably similar to that which might be expected
for the contract being charted. This subject will be discussed at length
in subsequent lessons. It is brought up here only in order to warn that

ge 2


  

 

  

LESSON I

—— Page 84

 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

 

 

  

 
 

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING

ANALYSIS continued
phase information extracted from a commodity weekly chart is always to
be considered suspect. This, of course, is not true in the case of weekly
stock charts.

© Now let us see how to go about extracting current-cyclic-model infor-
mation from the phasing analyses of the preceding sections.

 

 

© ‘The first step is to determine the average of the period samples for the
waves phased on both the weekly and the daily charts.

© The easiest way to do this is as follows: Subtract the grid fine number of
the leftmost diamond from the grid line number of the rightmost dia-
mond, and divide the result by the number of period samples lying be-
tween. (It is important to realize that prior to this operation, the wave
must have been completely phased. That is, all phasing diamonds must
have been placed. This will result in the correct sample count for the
averaging process just described.)

@ As an example of this procedure, refer back to figure 3-27 at the end of
section eleven. For the bottom row of diamonds:

The rightmost diamond is at grid line 172
The leftmost diamond is at grid line _3_

The difference is: 169 weeks

‘The number of period samples is: 14

‘Therefore, the average period is: 169-+14=12.0714 weeks.
This result rounds to 12.1 weeks.

 

@ As an exercise in applying this method, please make a tabulation of the
average wave periods from both the weekly and the daily phasing analyses
of copper (figures 3-27 and 3-33). Note that it is often necessary to go
through this procedure for a single wave only, since in most cases phasing
analysis results in precisely harmonic wave- period estimates. As an
example, the next longer wave of the preceding paragraph is found to be
2 times 12.0714 or 24.1428 (which rounds to 24.1 weeks). The resul
period estimate usually results in an accuracy improvement for the longer
waves for which period samples are limited in number. Make your tabu-
lation from figures 3-29 and 3-33 before referring to what follows.

 

 

 

vor eg, PMB SB
DUT ‘S824d SOPRA EL61 @ WBLAAdO


( CYCLITEC ee
SERVICES
TRAINING ” :
COURSEO i He

   

 

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING
ANALYSIS continued

@ The wave periods indicated by the phasing analyses of copper are as

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

follows:
PERIOD ESTIMATES
Weekly Daily
Nominal Phasing Phasing
Model Periodogram | Analysis | Analysis
18 M; 78 W 79 Ww 92.6 W
9M; 39 W 58 W 46.3 W
20 w 28 W 24.1 W
80D 12. W 4D) | 84.7D 95.3 D
40D 50D 417 D
2D 28D 23.6 D
10D 16 D 11.8 D
5D 59D

 

 

 

 

In this tabulation, the Periodogram estimate was retained as a matter of
interest for comparison with final results, But it has already served its
purpose in the initial cyclic model and would not ordinarily be entered
in the tabulation of the current cyclic model.

 

 

Also, because it was recognized that the 12.1-week and 95.3-day waves
from the weekly and daily analyses, respectively, represent one and the
same wave (12.1 weeks is 84.7 days), both the weekly and daily period
estimates are shown tor this wave.

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

@ Where weekly and daily analyses overlap (as in this case at the nominal
80-day wave), a choice must be made as to which estimate to use. In the

 


  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

Ht

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING
ANALYSIS continued
case of commodity analyses, the daily analysis estimate is preferred be-
cause of the nature of the weekly data. In the case of stock analyses, the
choice depends on several factors and will be discussed in a later lesson.

@ Estimates of the time of occurrence of future wave troughs are obtained
as follows:

1. Lay out the average period of the wave on a measuring strip.

2. Lay out the periods of each sample of the wave on the same strip,
measuring from diamond to diamond on the phasing analysis and
laying out each sample from the common reference mark on the
strip.

3. Use the completed measuring strip to measure into future time from
the last phasing diamond on the right.

4, Mark the time position of the period average with a circle, and
extend a horizontal line on either side of the circle to the extreme
period-sample positions on the measuring strip.

© At this point you may have realized that you normally construct such
measuring strips during the phasing process. In practice, it is good pro-
cedure to label the measuring strips as they are created during phas-
ing and then use them again later to lay out the expected trough Io-
cations in future time.

© This process of laying out expected trough locations in future time is
illustrated for the 5.9-day wave at A in figure 3-34. The desirable prac-
tice of labeling the rows of phasing diamonds with the average period is
also illustrated.

@ From figure 3-34 it is seen that the elapsed time since the latest phasing
diamond for all waves from 5.9 to 95.3 days is estimated to be 7 days.
This is the phasing information needed for these waves and is entered in
the current cyclic model.

@ The phase of the still longer waves must be derived from the weekly
analysis. Since this is a commodity chart and such phase information is
therefore suspect, it is best to measure phase from the last well established

Page 86

jBuacdo>

paniosay Sivan ITV
“sup ssadq S59PeA, €L61 O14


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING
ANALYSIS continued
wave trough rather than from a more recent trough that may have yet to
prove itself.

© Returning to figure 3-27, we see that the last firm diamond of the 24.1-
week wave is at grid line 150. Since then, 29 weeks have elapsed to the
date of the chart which is 10 November 1972. Another 2 weeks must be
added to bring the estimate up to date as of 24 November, the date of
the daily chart. Thus, the weekly analysis indicates that as of 24 Novem-
ber 1972, 31 weeks have passed since a last known trough of a 24.1-week
wave.

@ Since price movement was in the downward direction prior to the price
low that occurred 7 days ago. It is concluded that the 24.1-week wave
trough either occurred 7 days ago or is overdue.

The phase of this wave should be recorded as 31 weeks, meaning that
the wave is probably in a bottoming area.

© Similar conditions exist for the 46.3-week wave. Note that 50 weeks have
elapsed since the trough at grid line 129 of figure 3-27. The addition of
2 weeks to update this estimate to 24 November results in a phase of 52
weeks on that date. Again, the conclusion is that a trough of this wave
either occurred 7 days ago or is to be expected soon.

The phase of the 46.3-week wave should be recorded as 52 weeks, mean-
ing that this wave also is probably in a bottoming area.

© For the 92.6-week wave, 95 weeks have elapsed since the last firm
trough at grid line 84 of Figure 3-27. Adding 2 weeks to update this
estimate to 24 November results in a phase of 97 weeks. As with the
shorter wave, the conclusion is that a trough of this wave either occurred
7 days ago or is to be expected soon.

© The shortest wave on the daily chart, the 5.9-day wave, is treated some-
what the same as these longer waves in that it is listed as being 7 days
long from the last known trough. This is a simple way of saying that
a trough probably occurred about one day ago but the evidence in price
action is insufficient to warrant placing a phasing diamond as yet.

Page 87——

 


  

  

ra

Hl

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING

ANALYSIS continued

© Assembly of all of this phase information now results in a nearly com-
plete current cyclic model:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nominal Actual Phase
18 M; 78 W 92.6 W 97 W
9M; 39 W 46.3 W 52 W
20 W 24.1 W 31W
80 D 95.3 D 7D

40 D 47.7 D 7D
20 D 23.6 D 7D
10D 11.8D 7D
5D 5.9 D 7D

© To complete the current cyclic model, the direction of action of each
wave at present time must be determined. This information is inherent
in the phase numbers, but it is helpful to actually tabulate it by means of
arrow symbols.

© For the three longest waves of the model, the most that can be said is
that a nest-of-lows which includes these waves is past due. To represent
this situation symbolically, a curved arrow is used:

—

‘The bottoming, rounded form of the symbol denotes in bottom area,
while the slightly higher arrow tip denotes the past due phase status.

© For the 95.3-day wave, the phase of 7 days along since the last trough
means that the wave is currently estimated to be acting in such a way as
to cause prices to rise. This is true because an ideal 95.3-day wave spends

ge 8§ $$ — $$ $<

passasoy Siy3PL HY
au ‘ssaag SIapEAL LET @ WWBLUKAOD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.
All Rights Reserved

 

  
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
  

i

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING
ANALYSIS continued

one-half of its period, or 47.65 days, rising from a trough to a crest. Its
being only 7 days along implies a considerable time of upward push
before the wave top occurs. The arrow symbol for this situation is:

t

© Similar reasoning establishes the same direction of action (up) for the
47.7-day and 23.6-day waves.

HH LESSON

   

© However, the 11.8-day wave is presumed to have topped (at 5.9 days) and
is expected to be acting downward for another few days. A down arrow
is employed to indicate the current action of this wave.

|

© In the case of the 5.9-day wave, it is assumed for the purpose of esti-
mating phase status that another trough did indeed occur in the first 5.9
days of the 7 days elapsed since the last known trough. This would leave
7.0~5.9=1.1 days of upward action having occurred up to the present
time. Since this wave is expected to remain up for one-half of 5.9, or 2.95
days, the implication is that this wave is momentarily contributing to
upward moving prices. This is symbolized by an up arrow.

 

© The extraction of information from the phasing analysis is now nearly
complete. In practice, this process requires very little time, and the results
are recorded directly in the applicable portion of the analysis form (cur-
rent cyclic model tabulation). As the average wave periods become avail-
able, you should calculate and record the associated FLD number. In
some instances, an FLD number expressed in both weeks and days may
be desirable in order to permit use with both weekly and daily charts.
To do this, obtain the weekly FLD number in the usual manner, divid-
ing the wave periods in weeks by 2 and adding 1. To get the daily FLD
number, first multiply the period in weeks by 7, then divide by 2 and
add 1. However, if the average period is available in days, the daily FLD
is obtained directly and is to be preferred over a number obtained from a
period estimate in weeks. The current cyclic model for the example under
consideration now looks as follows:

ge 9

 


  

  

LESSON

)

Page

 

  

it

a
TTT eournsee

 

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING
ANALYSIS continued
CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nominal ‘Actual | Phase | Status | FLD Number

BL Weeks | Days
18M (78 W) | 926W | 97W | 4 413

9mMaow) | 43w | s2w | 4 24.1 | 163.0

20 W miw i) sw | 4 85.3

80D 953D | 7D } 48.6

40 D 477D | 7D } 24.8

20 D 26D | 7D } 12.8

10D 11.8 D 7D + 6.9

5D 59D | 7D 4 39

 

 

 

 

 

 

© Only the status of the SL quantity is yet missing. This factor will be
dealt with briefly here for the sake of completeness and will be discussed
in more detail in lessons to follow.

@ The symbol FL is read as sigma el. The Greek letter sigma is commonly
used to stand for the process of summation. The capital L stands for
long. The composite symbol represents the sum of all longer period waves.

@ Because there is no known limit to the lengths of price waves, there will
probably always be waves longer than the longest wave that can be defined
by any given amount of data. For a given set of data the trend under-
lying the longest definable wave is the sum of all price waves with still
longer periods. This trend is symbolized as 3L and is often referred to

as sum long.

 

 

Paaiasay siya

“DUT 884d SHAPE] E161 @ I4BUKdOD


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

  
 

t HH Wy) | LESSON

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING

ANALYSIS continued
© Since these longer waves cannot be phased, it is only possible to make
an estimate of the direction of their combined action at current time.
However, such an estimate is greatly improved by the information con-
tent of a completed phasing analy

 

 

@ As an introduction to this topic, please refer back to figure 3-27 at the
end of section eleven.

© We know that the longest wave capable of being phased on such a weekly
chart is the (nominal) 18-month wave. In figure 3-27, one full cycle of
this wave has been judged to exist between grid lines 84 and 172,

 

© The trend underlying ths wave would be a smooth curve over the interval
between grid lines 84 and 172, and all price oscillations would occur
about this curve as an axis. This trend would, by definition, be the quanti-
ty3L.

@ We note from the initial cyclic model that the 18-month wave is con-
sidered to be weak at the time of the analysis. Observation of price move-
ment certainly confirms this, since virtually no evidence of a price wave
of this period is observable in the time interval between grid lines 84 and
172, Instead, all that can be observed is the 9-month wave fluctuations.
Therefore, a smooth curve about which these oscillations occur must be EL

 

in this instance.

@ Such a curve is a very nearly straight, horizontal line. It is therefore
concluded that 3L for this situation is acting in neither an up nor a down
direction. The arrow symbol for this state of affairs is:

© Adding this estimate of 3L status to the current cyclic model results in
the final completed version shown in figure 3-34.

@ You may have noticed that the FLD numbers shown in the current cyclic
model are not rounded. This is merely a simplification in the calculation,
It does not mean that in plotting the FLD line you must go to a great
deal of effort to place each point exactly at the value indicated. If it is
easier for you to plot the point on the nearest grid line (as if the FLD

 

  

Page 91——


  

    
 

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

  

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING

ANALYSIS continued
number were rounded), by all means do so. It is important to keep in
mind that cyclic concept tools such as the FLD are probabilistic in nature.
‘A small difference in method of calculation or application will have a
slight positive effect on one transaction, but will have a slight negative
effect on another. Considered over a large number of transactions, the
effect to be expected is negligible.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

rs) (qt

Page 92

ve acc POMISOY SmUBRE TTY
3M] ‘88244 SHOPEAL C161 @ WYBUAdO-)


 

€ € €

 

 

  
 
 
    
     

 

 

 

coP WEEK ENDING: 24 NOV 1972 DAILY VOLzi.0
= CURRENT CYELIC MOTEL
ORIN ACTUAL | PASE SIAR Fu
ES Hss.0

   

 

 

Cony © 1979 Traders Pr a.
"at Rg Reeve

 

ar
z

 

 

 

 

FIOURE 3.24
| THE COMPLETED CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL bE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ab 20 a> ab sb 6b 7) 6b” ab ado “aio to “ade “tobe

“lll Hut

104 2% 30 35 40 46 sb
ols

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders P
raders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved i

 
 

    

CYCLITEG eR
series | ere
Courses LH ALI

  

CONCLUSION
© The information content of lessons two and three represents the largest

part of all the new knowledge you need in order to accomplish cyclic
analysis.
© Lessons four through ten will present a large amount of new material,
but this can be introduced at a more leisurely pace. Emphasis will in-
crease steadily in these lessons on workshops and learning by doing.
© You should not expect, at this point, to be able to handle a cyclic analysis
unaided. However, you should feel you have a good grasp of the termin-
ology and concepts studied so far.
@ Also, you should have many questions remaining in your mind. These will
be answered as subsequent lesson material is presented.
© The big hurdles to be cleared in the first three lessons were:
Lesson one —An understanding of the nature of the basic cyclic
concepts.
Lesson two —A general understanding of how to get from basie cyclic
concepts to transaction decisions,

Lesson three—A general understanding of the process of creating the
current cyclic model on which all cyclic analysis depends.

© In lesson number four, all of the concepts and methods learned to date
will be integrated into an improved understanding of the actual setting up
of a transaction. Methods will be discussed that permit very rapid ex-
traction of certain kinds of information without going through the formal
procedures of lessons two and three. And experience will be gained in
the art of phasing analysis via workshop exercises.

© You should proceed now to a study of the summary and glossary for
lesson three. Then take the self-examination.

 


 

SUMMARY

Page 9§__


  

   
 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

TAT 3

© A current cyclic model is a tabulated summary of the characteristics of
the individual price waves that sum to form price movement.

     

© A current cyclic model is constructed in three steps:
1. Generation of an initial cyclic model
2. Completion of a phasing analysis

3. Extraction of information from the phasing analysis to permit as-
sembly of a current cyclic model.

© The Principle of Nominality and the interpretation of a Periodogram
are involved in the construction of an initial cyclic model.

© A Periodogram is a single, graphical diplay of the multiple wave nature of
‘a composite wave such as price movement.

@ Each wave represented on a Periodogram appears as a single vertical line.
The height of the vertical line represents wave amplitude, and the hori-
zontal position of the vertical line represents wave period.

@ A price-movement Petiodogram consists of numerous vertical lines,
equally spaced. When these lines increase in height to a peak and then
diminish in height, the Periodogram is indicating that a wave exists. The
period of this wave is assumed to be the period of the vertical line at the
peak as read from the Periodogram horizontal period scale.

© In interpreting a Periodogram, the longest-period peaks are tabulated
first. This is primarily an aid in forming the habit of always thinking in
terms of the longest waves first, a vital factor in the correct approach to
phasing analysis.

All Rights Reserved

@ A Periodogram will often display extraneous peaks. These are deleted
from further consideration by comparing them with the periods to be
expected from the nominal cyclic model and by applying the Principle

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, ine.

 

© An initial cyclic model tabulates:
1. Wave periods from the nominal cyclic model
2. Wave periods from the interpreted Periodogram

Page 6.

 


     

  

 

CYCLITEC (
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

y IIINIIINII
a } LR

 

9
A

3. Comments on the relative strength of each wave as indicated by the ze
Periodogram. a

a)

© The phase of a wave can be very usefully and conveniently expressed as e 2
the time elapsed since the last trough of the wave. 38
as

‘This measure of phase also implies the current direction of action of the 3
wave. a

@ A phasing analysis is the means by which the most accurate available
estimate of wave periods and phases is obtained.

© The initial cyclic model is an indispensable guide in the process of phas-
ing analysis, but a link between this model and actual price movement
is needed. The Dominancy Envelope and its centerline provide this link.

@ The Dominancy Envelope is constructed so as to just contain the fluc-
tuations of the most visually apparent wave in the price movement. This
wave is called the dominant wave, ot the dominant component. ‘

@ The Dominancy Envelope acts as a wave-period divider. It does this by
splitting the complex sum of all price waves that constitute price move-
ment into two simpler sums.

 

@ One of these sums consists of the dominant wave plus all shorter waves.
This sum is contained by the Dominancy Envelope.

© Thus, the composite wave within the Dominancy Envelope is less com-
plex than the composite wave of total price movement. And it is there-
fore more easily interpreted in terms of individual wave action.

 

© The other sum consists of all waves longer than the dominant wave. This
sum constitutes the Dominancy Envelope centerline.

© ‘The shortest wave in this sum is the wave just longer than the dominant
wave and is called the pre-dominant wave.

© The Dominancy Envelope centerline fluctuates generally in sympathy with
the pre-dominant wave.

© The Dominancy Envelope centerline represents the trend underlying the
dominant wave.

——— Page 97.

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

ights Reserved

 

z

 

 
 

 
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

Ale HK i
© FLD’s may be used in past time to gain information regarding the time

locations of price lows and highs associated with wave troughs and crests.

 

For this purpose, the FLD number can be simplified to merely one-
half of the estimated wave period; it need not be rounded, and it need not
have one time unit added to

 

This FLD usage plays an important role in phasing analysis.
© The process of phasing analysis takes place in three steps:
1. Entry
2. Extension
3. Completion.

@ The phasing analysis for a given equity always starts with the chart having
the longest time span and with one of the longest-period components of

the initial cyclic model.

@ Entry to a phasing analysis can take place in several ways:

1. Use of the Dominancy Envelope centerline oscillations as evidence
of the time locations of pre-dominant wave troughs and crests

2. Direct comparison of initial cyclic model period estimates with
Dominancy Envelope centerline fluctuations or with price movement

 

3. Application of FLD's in past time to establish initial estimates of
long-wave trough locations.

 

@ Extension is accomplished in four steps:

1. The combined effects of the Principles of Synchronicity and Har-
monicity are used to enable placement of next-shorter-wave phas-
ing diamonds at the same time positions as those of the longer waves

already phased.

2. Phasing gaps between troughs coincident with consecutive next-
Jonger wave trough positions are filled by applying the Principle of
Harmonicity and using measuring strips for direct comparison of

cyclic model information with price movement.

 

 

 

Page 98


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  
 

re

3. Price is explored to the left and to the right of next-longer wave
troughs for which no consecutive diamond is available in the direc-
tion explored. Visual evidence in price is noted using period esti-
mates augmented by the period samples located previously as a

guide.

 

rr) mee

     

4, Measuring strips are used for direct comparison with price move-
ment to locate the more obvious of the remaining unidentified

troughs of the wave being phased.
These steps are carried out in the order shown, and ambiguous situations
are deferred for resolution later in the phasing analysis.
© Completion is accomplished in two steps:

1, Filling all phasing gaps of the shortest wave phased

2. Working upward through successively longer waves by filling the
harmonic gaps (applying the Principle of Harmonicity).

@ Information is extracted from a phasing analysis as follows:

1. Wave period-samples are averaged for each wave phased.

2. Period averages and the period-sample variations are laid out on
measuring strips which are then used to measure on the chart from
last known trough positions into future time. Period averages and
ranges of variation are then transferred to the chart at expected

future trough locations. This process provides visual indication of
the times at which future nests-of-lows are most likely to occur.

 

3. The phase of each wave is recorded as the elapsed time since the
last trough.
4. The direction of action of each wave is inferred from the phase
information.
@ Information extracted from the phasing analysis is tabulated as the cur-
rent cyclic model.

@ The information contained in a current cyclic model is:

1, Nominal-model wave periods

 

—— Page 99.

z

 

paasasay siusin

“SUL ss01g Su9pe4] C161 @ MLEKdO


Copyright © 1973 Traders P
All Rights Reserved sin

    

 

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

ill 3

 

   

2. Best estimate, or actual, wave periods
3. The phase of each wave at present time
4, The direction of action of each wave at present time
5. The FLD number for each wave based on actual periods.
© Phasing analysis is not an exact process; it is an art. However, the guide-
lines available make it a readily learned art.

It is quite possible for two analysts to perform a phasing analysis on the
same price data and arrive at somewhat different results. However, it is
seldom that such differences are great enough to result in different con-
clusions regarding a potential transaction.

© Part of the art of phasing analysis lies in the ability to recognize that
precise or unambiguous resolution of some situations is not necessary
when such resolution would not alter the needed transaction conclusions.

On the other hand, part of the art of phasing analysis lies in the ability
to recognize those situations that must be resolved with care if poor trans-
action conclusions are to be avoided.

© The art of phasing analysis is best learned by doing, and ample oppor-
tunity to learn in this way will be provided in subsequent lessons.

 

© Time translation is the shift in the time positions of composite wave lows
and highs by comparison with the time positions of associated component

wave troughs and crests.
@ Time translation is caused by trend. When troughs and lows are involved,
it is referred to as /ow translation. When crests and highs are involved,
it is referred to as high translation.
© When trend is down, low translation is to the right and high translation
is to the left. When trend is up, low translation is to the left and high
translation is to the right.
© Weekly prices for commodities are not assembled in the same way as

weekly prices for stocks. As a result, care must be used in the interpre-
tation of phase information from weekly commodity charts.

Page 100.

 


  

LESSON

x

Page 101,

  

 
 

 
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
 

© The following outlines condense many of the essentials of lesson three
into easy-to-remember form. (FLD price projection evidence is listed as an
ingredient in the generation of a current cyclic model even though it will
not be discussed in this connection until lesson four.)

GENERATING A CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL
Initial Cyclic Model

Periodogram, +

Nominality, +

 

Harmonicity =

. The initial cyclic model.

Current Cyclic Model

1

ene een

. Initial Cyclic Model, +

Dominancy Envelope and centerline, +
FLD and VTL proof of trough and crests, +
FLD price projection evidence, +
Harmonicity and Synchronicity effects, +
Period sample averaging, +

Last trough location =

The current cyclic model.

paaiosoq sua IV
“ou ss0ug s29pe. ¢161 0 WKIO


ights Reserved

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

    

CYCLITEC TM il LESSON
SERVICES Hy
TRAINING Niet F
COURSEO bait ay

CYCLIC MODEL PROCESSES

1. Periodogram Analysis 2. Initial Cyclic Model
* Start at right * Period sets
* Record all peak evidence ~ Nominal model
* Delete extraneous peak « Periodogram
periods
- Nominality
» Harmonicity
3. Phasing Analysis 4, Information Extraction
* Start * Period-sample averages
- Longest chart * Future nest-of-lows
. Longest period estimates
* Phase most obvious first * Wave phases
* Entry * Wave directions

. Pre-dominant wave
Direct comparison

ELD slinboast| inne) 5. Current Cyclic Model
* Extension
. Synchronous troughs * Nominal wave periods
 Consecutive-trough search * Actual wave periods
: End-diamond search (averaged samples)
«Direct comparison * Wave phases (time
* Completion along)
- Gap-fill shortest wave * Wave statuses (wave
: Harmonic fill on succes- direction)
sively longer waves * FLD numbers

 

  

Page 102___


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 

 

 

 

 

AAA a

 

 

GLOSSARY

 

Page 103 —


‘AU Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

| Tl TY a)
f Ht FCP 3

ACTION SIGNAL A price break of a VTL or FLD indicating a strong
likelihood that an anticipated price move is under way.

AMPLITUDE. The size or amount of the price movement involved as a
price wave goes ftom trough to crest.

AUGMENTED MEASURING STRIP A measuring strip that has had
period samples added to the original nominal-model and Periodogram
wave period estimates.

AVERAGE PERIOD A wave period estimate formed by averaging two or
more trough-to-trough measurements.

BAR-CHART A common way of plotting, or graphing, equity prices. The
high and low prices for a day are joined by a vertical straight line to show
the range over which prices traded for that day. The consecutive set of
such lines is called a daily bar-chart of that equity. Similarly, the high
and low prices for a week can be compiled to form a weekly bar-chart
for the equity.

BOTTOMING In reference to a wave, means that the wave is forming a
trough.

BREAK Prices break a VTL ot an FLD when they pass from one side of
the VTL or FLD to the other (from above to below, or vice versa).

CASCADE A rippling, or one-thing-followed-by-another, effect. In cyclic
theory, the tendency under certain circumstances for an FLD break to
predict prices which will break another FLD, thus predicting still greater
price moves, ete.

COMMONALITY A term indicating that price movements of negotiable
equities have similar qualities in spite of the diversity of visual appear-
ances of price charts.

COMPLETION As applied to phasing analysis, the process of filling
phasing gaps after the entry and extensions have been accomplished.

COMPONENT A single wave in price movement or in the composite wave
formed from several single waves.

COMPOSITE WAVE The single new form resulting from the combin-
ation by summation of two or more price waves,

 

Page 104


  

 

sr

3

—— Page 105,

iil
een

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

CONSECUTIVE TROUGHS Wave troughs from consecutive cycles of a

given wave.
CREST or WAVE CREST The highest point on a component price wave.

vy ag PAM SBN TY
9U ‘894d SORT F161 @ 1YBIKdo>

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL A tabulation of wave periods, phases, and
directions of action. The best available estimate of the values for these

characteristics of the waves active in the price movement of a given
equity at a given time. Usually includes FLD numbers for easy reference.

CYCLE One complete movement of a price wave from one trough to the

next consecutive trough.
CYCLICALITY (Derived from the word cycle.) A generic term referring
to the wave phenomena in the price action of equities.

CYCLIC MODEL See current cyclic model.

DIRECT COMPARISON A technique whereby available period estimates
are laid out on a measuring strip which is then visually compared with

Price action.
DOMINANT WAVE or DOMINANT COMPONENT The longest wave

contained by the Dominancy Envelope.

DOMINANCY ENVELOPE A computer generated aid present on Cyclitec
charts. A constant vertical height envelope containing most of price move-
ment. Contains the dominant wave and all shorter waves. Serves as a

 

wave-period divider.

DOMINANCY ENVELOPE CENTERLINE A smooth curve central to
the Dominancy Envelope. The sum of all waves longer than the dom-
inant wave.

DOWNTREND LINE A trend line connecting specially selected price
highs. The later price high is lower than the earlier price high so that the
line slants downward to the right.

BL Read sigma el. Stands for sum long. Consists of the sum of all waves
longer than the longest wave identified and phased.

1g a phasing analysis. The placement of the

 

ENTRY The means of sta
first phasing diamonds of a phasing analysis.

 


Pres, inc.
Copyright © 1973 Traders
Pee Rights Reserved

   
  
  
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

 

    

}

TT

ni

 

Hl a

s, com-

  

EQUITY or NEGOTIABLE EQUITY A generic label for securi
modity futures contracts, etc., traded on an auction market.

 

EXTENSION _ As applied to a phasing analysis, the means of phasing
successively shorter waves after an entry has been effected.

FLD An acronym for Future Line of Demarcation. An FLD is a forward-
shifted replica of past price averages and has useful properties.

FLD NUMBER A number used in constructing an FLD. It is found by

dividing the period of the wave on which the FLD is based by two, then
adding one.

 

FUTURE TIME POSITION A place on an equity price bar-chart corres-
ponding to some time in the future; that is, some time to the right of the
last known price bar on the chart.

GAP Ina row of phasing diamonds, a space too long to represent a period

sample. On a Cyclitec chart, a space where no price bar is shown because
the market was closed that day.

GRID LINE NUMBER Refers to the time scale reading on a Cyclitee
chart corresponding with a given vertical grid line on the chart. A conven-
ient reference for various activities displayed on a Cyclitec chart.

HARMONICITY (Derived from the word harmonious or harmonic.)
Means that wave periods are related by small, whole numbers.

HIGH TRANSLATION The time translation effect as related to price
highs versus wave crests.

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL A tabulated set of wave periods derived from
Periodogram interpretation and the Principle of Nominality. Used as a
guide in setting up a current cyclic model.

LONG To go long in an equity is to purchase it in the expectation of sel-
ling it later at a higher price.

LOW TRANSLATION The time translation effect as related to price
ows versus wave troughs.

MEASURING STRIP A strip of paper with estimated periods laid out on
Used in phasing analysis.

 

 

Page 106———


 
  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 
 

Ig

  

LESSON HH] He ll
MUTI
i

Also, a strip of paper with an FLD number laid out on it. Used for FLD
measurements.

MOST SIGNIFICANT PRICE LOW Means most visually evident. Applied
to the coarsest price movement between two consecutive wave troughs. A
price low that is made up of more coincident wave troughs than are ad-

 

 

jacent price lows.
NEIGHBORING As applied to waves, refers to two waves in a set of
waves whose periods are closest to being the same.
NEST-OF-LOWS A time when two or more component price waves form
simultaneous troughs.

NOMINAL MODEL or NOMINAL CYCLIC MODEL _ A list of the periods
of the price waves to be expected in price movements.

 

NOW TIME Synonymous with current, or present, time. The time at
which an analysis is being made. The latest time for which price data is
available.

PAST-TIME FLD An FLD plotted in the chart area representing time
prior to current time. Usually used to aid identification of wave trough
location, Uses a simplified FLD number consisting of merely one-half
of the wave period estimate.

PAST-TIME POSITION A location on an equity price bar-chart corres-
ponding to some time in the past; that is, somé time to the left of the
last known price bar on the chart.

 

PERIOD The length of time that elapses between a trough of a price
wave and the next consecutive trough of the same wave.

PERIODOGRAM A convenient means of presenting information about
many price waves simultaneously. A plot of wave amplitude versus wave
period. Consists of a series of vertical lines, each representing a potential
wave. Line height indicates amplitude, while horizontal line position
indicates period.

PERIOD SAMPLE A measurement of elapsed time between estimated
positions of consecutive wave troughs.

PHASE The time relationship between two price waves.

—— Page 102

poasosoy sini IV
-auy ss0ug SOPH] EGLO INRA,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Al Rights Reserved

 

    

CYCLITEC | mM | I] LESSON
Zeniige ||| aera est
COURSEO eT

 

      

PHASING ANALYSIS A procedure for isolating the wave components
present in a complex composite wave. A series of methods whereby wave
trough positions are estimated. The means of refining an initial cyclic
model into a current cyclic model.

PHASING DIAMOND A diamond-shaped mark placed on a chart to
denote the best estimate of the time location of a wave trough.

POTENTIAL Short for potential profit. The difference between the entry
and exit prices of a transaction expressed in price units.

POTENTIAL PERCENTAGE Anticipated profit (potential) expressed as a
percentage of the transaction entry commitment.

PR_ An acronym for Potential-Risk ratio. The ratio of potential to risk;
that is, potential divided by risk.

 

PREDICTION An estimate of something expected to happen in the future.
Never exact, always an expected high likelihood.

PRE-DOMINANT WAVE or PRE-DOMINANT COMPONENT The
wave just longer than the dominant wave. The shortest wave that is part
of the sum of waves comprising the Dominancy Envelope centerline,

PRICE ACTION or PRICE MOVEMENT _ Refers to the fact that equity
prices change constantly as time passes. The motion of prices as time

goes on.

PRICE-MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM A Periodogram constructed by
analysis of price data. Interpreted by noting the period of the tallest
line of each set that forms a peak in the Periodogram shape.

PROBABILISTIC Having to do with probabilities. Dealing with like-
lihood stronger than possibility, but falling short of certainty.

PROPORTIONALITY or PROPORTIONAL TO _ relationship between
two quantities such that as one increases, the other also increases, and by

the same percentage. In cyclic concepts, relates to the amplitude and
period of the various waves in a cyclic model.

PZ An acronym for Pause Zone. A price region in which one or more
FLD’s tend to congregate in a horizontal band. A price region where
prices tend to slow-down or reverse a cascade movement.

 

 

 

Page 108.


  

LESSON

x)

—— Page 109,

  

se

       
 
       

CYCLITEC (
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

RANGE OF PERIOD ESTIMATES A time span corresponding to the
difference between maximum and minimum estimates of the period of a
given wave.

 

 

RISK Short for /oss risk. The amount that will be lost in case the trans-
action is terminated because prices penetrate the stop-loss level.

SHORT or SELL SHORT To sell borrowed stock in the expectation that
the price will subsequently go down. If the price does go down, a profit
is made by replacing the borrowed stock with stock purchased on the
open market at the reduced price.

paasasay S13 TV
-ouy ‘ssaag S9PE1] EL6T @ WEIRD

STOP-LOSS LEVEL A special kind of action signal. A price level at
which a transaction is terminated because the probabilities no longer
favor a profitable outcome. This action usually results in a loss on the
transaction.

SUMMATION The act of summing, or adding.

SYNCHRONICITY (Derived from the word synchronous ot synchronize.)
Means to occur simultaneously in time. In cyclic theory, the term refers
to the tendency of the troughs of one component wave to occur at the
same time as the troughs of other component waves in the same com-
posite wave.

 

TIME-ALONG A term used as a convenient measurement of wave phase.
Means time elapsed since last known wave trough.

TIME SCALE On a Cyclitec chart, a series of numbers laid out hori-
zontally and corresponding to a count of the vertical grid lines. A con-
venient means of referring to specific grid lines. Also a convenient means
of measuring elapsed time between marks on a measuring strip.

TIME TRANSLATION The shift that underlying trend causes in the time
position of price lows and highs so that they no longer coincide with
associated wave troughs and crests.

TOPPING In reference to a wave, means that the wave is forming a crest.

TREND Generally, the strength and direction of price movement if short
term fluctuations in price are ignored. In cyclic theory, the sum of all
ptice waves longer in period than the specific wave for which trend is
being defined.

 


 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

    

CYCLITEC Wy UU I l rey
zesiaes [leet le
Cournsee LLIN Ute

TREND LINE A line drawn across specially selected price highs (or
price lows).

TROUGH or WAVE TROUGH The lowest point on a component price
wave.

UPTREND LINE A trend line connecting specially selected price lows.
The later price low is higher than the earlier price low so that the line
slants upward to the right.

VALID TREND LINE A trend line drawn according to specific rules so
that the result has meaning in terms of cyclic concepts. Abbreviated
VTL.

VARIATION _ In cyclic concepts, refers to the fact that actual local wave
conditions differ from the nominal, or long-term average, expectation.

VOLATILITY INDEX A number appearing in the heading line of Cycli-
tec charts. Gives a measure of the relative volatility of the issue; that is,

the percentage rate, or speed, with which prices for the issue tend to
change.

WAVE As applied to price movement, a repetitive fluctuation in price
with well defined, measurable characteristics.

WAVE DIRECTION The best estimate of the direction in which a given
price wave is tending to move prices at present time. Spoken of as
being up, down, flat, bottoming, or topping.

WAVE-PERIOD DIVIDER A means of separating the sum of all waves
forming a given price movement into two simpler sums of waves. Each of
the two sums consists of contiguous waves of the cyclic model. The
Dominancy Envelope and its centerline function as a wave-period di

 

der.

WAVE PHASE An indication of the location in time of the wave shape.
Conveniently measured as time elapsed from the most recent wave trough
to current, or present, time.

 

Page 110

  


 

 

 

 

SELF-EXAMINATION

 

Page 111


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al Rights Reserved

     

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

fea WY] ay
Pei x
It is suggested that you go all the way through the examination a first time

without referring to the cassette or text material. In doing so, mark answers
only to the questions you are sure of; don’t guess. Leaving an answer un-
marked will flag that question for further attention on the second pass
through the exam.

   

After you have finished the first pass, check the answers you have marked
against the answer key, circling any that are wrong. Then go back through
the examination and refer to the text material to refresh your memory on
those questions that you answered wrong or left unanswered.

1, The Dominancy Envelope
4. Contains the pre-dominant wave
b. Represents an underlying trend
©. Oscillates with the dominant wave
4. Contains the sum of the dominant wave and all shorter waves.
2. A wave-period divider
a. Divides a wave period into two parts
b. Separates a composite wave into wave sums
c. Neither of these.
3. An initial eyctic model
4a. Is a tabulation of Periodogram wave period estimates

4. Combines information from the Periodogram and the Principle of
Nominality

¢. Provides wave period, phase, and phase status information
d. None of these.

4, The three steps in phasing analysis are F .
and

 

5. Time translation is caused by

a. Trend


 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

    

A

b. The Principle of Variation

ro Ht

    

¢. Price lows not matching wave troughs
d. Phase differences between waves in a cyclic model.

6. The shortest period wave that is part of the Dominancy Envelope
centerine is called the dominant wave. True[ | False{ |

7. Ifthe trend underlying a given wave is strongly up, any low translation
present will be

a. To the right
b. To the left
c. Up
d. None of these.
8. The purpose in placing phasing diamonds ts to
a, Locate the time positions of significant price lows
b. Establish the location of wave crests
¢. Aid in the construction of an initial cyclic model
d. Estimate the time locations of wave troughs
e. None of these.
9. The three steps involved in constructing a current cyclic model are
1.
2 and
3

10. The most useful measurement of wave phase is the time elapsed from
to ;

 

 

 

11. The reason that the measurement of wave phase of question 10 is so
useful is because an important item of wave information is implied.
This information is

 

—— Page 113,

vay egg, PRMBSOU SBR LY
‘BUT ‘944 S49P 84] E16] @ IYSLAKdO:)


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

     

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

it ert i}
Tee TET x

12. Select the phrases most nearly descriptive of the four steps in the ex-
tension of a phasing analysis and indicate the order in which they
should be performed by entering the numbers J, 2, 3, or 4, in the
appropriate boxes.

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Entry Synchronous troughs

Completion Average period samples
[_] Direct Comparison End diamond search

FLD’s in past time Consecutive trough search

 

 

 

13. In the process of phasing analysis, the Dominancy Envelope and its
centerline serve as a link between

4a. The initial cyclic model and the current cyclic model
b, Periodogram period estimates and nominal cyclic model estimates
¢. The initial cyclic model and price movement

d. None of these.

‘ith

 

14, The process of interpreting a Periodogram should bej
4, The dominant component
b. The shortest period wave
c. The longest period wave
d. It doesn't make any difference.

15. Phasing analysis should always start with the shortest period wave.
True[ | False{ |

16. The two basic cyclic principles involved in deleting extraneous Period.
ogram peaks are the Principle of , and the Princi-
ple of

 

 

17. If the trend underlying a given wave is strongly down, any high trans-
lation present will be

a. To the right
b. To the left

ge 1


   

   
  

 
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

Ag

  

en

Down

 

d. None of these.

18, FLD’s in past time are most useful in phasing analysis for

8

.. Locating wave trough positions
b. Estimating period length
c. Detecting time translation effects
d. None of these.
19, Phasing analysis starts with daily charts. True[ | False[ ]

20, The extension of a phasing analysis takes place from
waves to waves.

 

21, The basic cyclic principle most directly used in the first step of ex-
tending a phasing analysis is the Principle of

a, Nominality
b. Variation

c. Harmonicity

4d. Synchronicity
e. Commonality
f. None of these.

22, When filling the harmonic gaps in the completion step of a phasing
analysis, the analyst proceeds from

a. Short waves to successively longer ones
b. Long waves to successively shorter ones
¢. Either way

d, None of these.

23, When trend underlying a wave is strongly down, any low translation
present will be

—— Page 115,

 

4sussdo.

paxsasoy 37H TV
-auy 504g SIOPELL CL6T OF

 


ht © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

Copyrig!

24,

28.

26.
27.

28.

29,

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

Ie Ml i}
TTT PTET 3

 

a. Imperceptible

b. Equal to high translation
¢. To the left

d. None of these.

In interpreting a Periodogram, one should ignore evidence of amplitude
peaks if the Principle of Proportionality is violated by the size of the
peak. True | | False[ |

‘The phrase time along is used in speaking of

a. Time to the next nest-of-lows

b. Elapsed time along the period axis of a Periodogram

c. Wave phase

d. None of these.

Phasing analysis is an exact procedure. True [ | False |

High translation is a method of estimating how far up prices may go.
True[ } False{ |

After performing the exercises in this lesson, you are in a position to
start active trading in the equity markets using cyclic concepts.
True[ ] False[ |

The shortest-period wave of the nominal cyclic model that can be suc-
cessfully phased on a weekly chart is

a, 20-week
b. 80-day
¢. 40-day
d. 20-day
€. None of these.

Some information extracted from a phasing analysis is not normally
summarized in a current cyclic model. True| | False[ }

—. Pre 116

  


   

    

 

 

 

TIMI Stavices
| Wy SERVICES
MUTT counsto
COURSE©
ANSWERS
he & I. ey ai. de
2 »b. 14. © yee, a)
3b 15. False Bh id.
4. Entry 16. Nominality 24. False.
Extension Harmonicity. 25.
Completion. 17, be 26. False
5. oa. 18. a. 27. False.
6. False. 19. False. (28. False!
7 ob 20. Long 29, «.
8 d. ‘Short. (30. True.
9. Construction of an initial cyclic model; generation of a phasing an-
alysis; extraction of information from the phasing analysis.
10. The last known wave trough; present time.
11. Wave direction
12. 1. Synchronous troughs ‘3.| End diamond search

 

 

 

 

 

 

2] Consecutive trough search (4. | Direct comparison

 

—— Page 117,

paasosay sani IV
“aur ‘ssaug S12pe4] EL6T @ WBLAKEOD


CYCLITEC

 

 

 

 

AAA i

COURSEO

 

CASSETTE SCRIPT

Page 118___


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

  
  
  

   
  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

    

li

TI i

        

HT LESSON
REVIEW

This is the introductory review for Cyclitec Services Training Course lesson
number three, which is entitled Setting Up the Cyclic Model.

In the first lesson, a set of cyclic concepts were described that permit judging
the outcome of a transaction before entering it. This process consists of
determining when in future time prices are most likely to reverse; how far
prices are likely to go when they do reverse; what price level, if reached,
signals that success odds have been degraded; and what future price action
indicates that the price reversal expected is probably underway.

 

With this degree of foreknowledge of the probable nature of a transaction,
a logical decision can be made as to whether or not it is desirable to enter
the transaction.

The second lesson described how cyclic concepts can be used to identify
various trends according to the price waves each consists of. Knowing these
component waves and having determined their phase status, the likelihood
of trend reversal in the near future can be estimated.

Also, lesson number two described how trend lines can be associated with
each wave in a current cyclic model in such a way as to make the trend
lines more useful. Such trend lines, drawn according to specific rules, are
called valid trend lines, ot VIL's. Valid trend lines are used to find price
lows and highs associated with wave troughs and crests, and can serve as
action signal generators,

Future lines of demarcation, or FLD's, are another valuable graphical
construction. FLD's are lines drawn in future time and consisting of past
average prices shifted forward. An FLD can be drawn for each wave of
a current cyclic model.

FLD’s, like valid trend lines, can be used to detect wave troughs and crests
in price movement and can also serve as action signal generators. However,
unlike VIL's, FLD's can be used to estimate the extent of price moves.

The set of all FLD’s which correspond to all of the waves of a current

cyclic model form patterns in future time. Such patterns provide added
information as to what prices are most likely to do in the future.

—_—. ge 19


— Page 120.

 

 

 

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  
 

REVIEW continued

A cascade of future price movements is indicated when FLD's are arranged
in a parallel, sloping pattern and cyclic analysis confirms that it is time
for a price reversal.

A pause zone is established when one or more FLD's are entangled in a
horizontal price region. Such a pause zone is an indication of future price
slow-down or pull-back and can signal the end of a cascade of price move-
ments.

FLD’s and VTL's can be used to determine when an expected price move
is likely to be underway. Used in this manner, they are called action signal
generators. They can also set logical stop-loss levels for potential trans-
actions. When an action signal occurs and if FLD patterns have set a price
move objective, a candidate transaction has been set up.

Given a stop-loss level and a price objective, a transaction entry price can
then be found which provides an acceptable ratio of potential profit to
loss risk and an acceptable percentage gain from the estimated potential
profit.

Such potential-risk ratios and potential percentage computations are
valuable aids in selecting the least-risk transactions from those that are

available.

Because of the importance of these concepts from the previous lessons,

the principle definitions, rules, and methods of interpretation are succinctly
summarized in the accompanying text. Please turn your tape unit off now
and turn to page one for a thorough review before continuing.

INTRODUCTION

The concepts of trading and investing discussed and exemplified in lessons
one and two are dependent on the ability to separate out the individual
wave components currently responsible for price change and to identify
the characteristics of each. The process of isolating such waves is called
phasing analysis, and the tabulated assembly of the resulting wave char-
acteristics is called a current cyclic model.

To accomplish a phasing analysis we make use of any and all of the cyclic
concepts available as well as techniques and methods derived from these

 

paarasoy smary IV

“DUT 'ss24q S49PEL] E161 @ WBUKdOL)


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

 
 

 
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

 

 

INTRODUCTION | continued

concepts. Some of these methods were discussed in lesson two, but several
more are required before you are ready to undertake your first phasing

analysis.

Phasing analysis is not a mechanical process. The general procedures
can be stated, and the aids to the process can be described. But the process
itself is one of selecting the procedures most useful for application to a
given case. The basic cyclic concepts provide a guiding preconception of
what to expect. Then knowledge of basic concepts and specific techniques
are used to extract evidence that variations from basic concept expectations
exist.

‘The processes involved are not difficult to learn and quickly become instinc-
tive. However, more familiarity with, and knowledge of, the phenomena of
cyclicality is required in phasing analysis than in any other part of a com-
plete eyclic analysis. As a result, considerable detail will be presented in
this lesson, and a great deal of opportunity to learn by doing will follow

in the workshops of succeeding lessons.

 

A curtent cyclic model is created in three steps. In the first step, an initial
cyclic model is formed. The second step is a phasing analysis, And the third
step extracts information from the phasing analysis needed to refine the
initial cyclic model into a final current cyclic model.

In this lesson, you will first be exposed to several new concepts and methods
needed in one or more of these three steps. Then the process of constructing
an initial cyclic model will be described. Following this, phasing analysis
will be treated by discussion and extensive exercise. After these topics are
thoroughly covered, the methods of extracting information from the phas-
ing analysis to form the current cyclic model — and for other purposes —
will be explained.

‘You should turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section two.

THE CYCLIC MODEL CONCEPT REVISITED

On several occasions now, the idea of a cyclic model has been discussed.

In lesson one, the nominal cyclic model (or just nominal model) was des-
cribed. Then in lesson two this concept was extended to include the current
cyclic model of an individual equity. A current cyclic model has been defined

 

 

 

rT)

3

Page 121—

 


    
 
 

  

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

red Tet UAHA tT
3 rth Mi ft

THE CYCLIC MODEL CONCEPT REVISITED continued

as a table of wave periods and phases. It is time now to turn attention in
detail to the nature, meaning, and methods of arriving at a current cyclic
model.

    

 

paasasoy sy3i
-ouy ‘ssaag Sx9pery EL61 @ 1YBIAKdOD

When we speak of the nominal model, we refer to the average expected
periods of waves present in all negotiable equities. Thus the nominal model
consists only of a tabulation of wave periods; wave phases are not included.

However, the Principle of Variation tells us that the cyclic model in effect in
the price action of a given equity at any given time can vary considerably
from the nominal expectation. It is when we have used all of the methods at
our disposal to determine what the best estimate is of the wave variables

at work at a given time in an equity that we rename the result to avoid
confusion with the nominal model. Thus, we speak of the current eyelic
model for that equity at that time.

For our purposes we need to know much more about the waves at work in
price than just the period of each. Specifically, we need to know the phase
of each of the active waves. Therefore, a current cyclic model consists of a
tabulation of estimated wave periods and phases as of a given date.

It is recalled from lesson one that phase is a measure of where, in time, the
general shape of a wave is placed. For example, if we were to say that a
given wave had a trough thirteen days before Christmas day of 1913, then,
knowing the wave period, we could locate all earlier and later troughs. How-
ever, we could just as well have chosen any other reference time we so
desired, and our ability to locate that particular wave in time would have
been just as complete.

‘The simplest time reference for us to choose when considering the phase of
a wave is the time of the most recent trough of the wave. For example,
suppose that “now” time, or the date of the most current price-bar on a
chart we are analyzing, is Friday, the 16th of March, 1973. Then suppose
we find that the last trough for a wave with a 19-day period occurred just
four days earlier, on the 12th of March. We could say that now, on the 16th
of March, this wave is just four days along from its last trough. We have
then identified the phase of the wave in a most useful manner.

—— Page 122-

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

| ll WN HW LESSON
CE x

THE CYCLIC MODEL CONCEPT REVISITED continued

We know that such a wave forms a crest just one-half of its period along
from a trough; and we know that between the trough and the following crest
the wave is going up. Thus we see that by defining wave phase in the manner
described, we have immediately also implied the direction of the wave at
now time. In the example used, it was found that a wave with a 19-day
period was just four days along from its last trough. One-half of nineteen is
nine and one-half, which is the number of days this wave should rise from

a trough before forming a crest. Since it is only four days since the last
trough, this wave is about one-half way up from a trough to a crest and is
expected to rise for about another five and one-half days.

 

Now we can see more clearly what is needed in the tabulation of a current
cyclic model. Normally, such a tabulation is headed by an identification of
the equity involved and the date of the last price-bar on the tight of its price
chart. Then the nominal model wave periods are listed in a column to the
left. Opposite these nominal periods are listed the best estimates of current,
actual wave periods that correspond to the nominal periods. A third column
provides the phase information in the form of the time-along, or time
elapsed since the last wave trough. A fourth column contains arrows showing
whether each wave is estimated to be acting in an up or in a down direc-

tion at the time of the analysis. Finally, the far column on the right con-
tains the FLD number for each wave based on the actual wave periods.

You should turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section
three.

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT

Having defined phase in the manner of the last section, it becomes clear
that all that is needed in order to set up a current cyclic model is the loca-
tion of the price lows corresponding to all the price-wave troughs in the
price movement. Marking these lows with phasing diamonds permits us to
average a series of trough-to-trough period samples for each wave, resulting
in a best estimate of actual periods. Then the time location of the last trough
for each wave provides the necessary phase information to complete the
current cyclic model.

Once again, all that is needed to set up a current cyclic model is identifization

 

  

Page 123


 
 
  

    

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

THE PERIODOGRAM CONCEPT continued

of the time positions of all the troughs of all the price waves present. This
identification process is called phasing analysis.

 

This sounds quite easy, but in practice it requires all the knowledge of
cyclic concepts and methods available. The basic techniques will be pre-
sented in this lesson, and subsequent lessons will afford you ample oppor-
tunity to put your learning into practi

   

Itis nearly impossible to do effective phasing analyses without some com-
putational assistance. The large digital computers available today are ideal
for this purpose. Several of the figures of lessons one and two showed infor-
mation derived in this way in addition to the basic price-bar plots.

One of these computer generated assists is called a Periodogram. A thor-
ough understanding of the Periodogram is essential because it is one of
our most valuable tools for working out the phasing analysis of a price
bar-chart.

If we visualize a single price wave we have little difficulty in thinking of it
and its effects. We can even sketch out the appearance of such a wave if
we are given its amplitude, period, and phase.

However, when we consider all of the waves of a cyclic model, the process
of visualizing all of these waves at once, or of sketching them all out, be-
comes laborious and clumsy.

 

‘The Periodogram solves many of these problems for us.

A Periodogram is simply a plot of wave amplitude versus wave period. Am-
plitude is plotted on the vertical axis of a graph, and period is plotted on
the horizontal axis.

Usually, a Periodogram is plotted as a series of vertical lines. Each line
represents one possible price wave. The height of the line represents ampli-
tude, and the position of the line on the horizontal axis represents period.
Thus, any size set of price waves can be represented by a single, simple
plot.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section four.

— Page 124

paasasoy S1yary IV
-auy 821g S19pELL C161 O MBNA


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 
 

  
   

 

  

THE PRICE-MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL
CYCLIC MODEL

In the last section you were introduced to the idea of a Periodogram as
applied to a set of ideal waves. First you saw how known waves could be
represented in Periodogram form. Then you saw how a Periodogram could
be read so that the waves indicated could be laid out for visual inspection
and graphic manipulation.

fIK

   

All of this so far has had to do only with ideal waves. As might be expected,
the situation is similar but not quite so simple when applied to the complex
composite of many non-ideal waves that constitute price movements.

What we would like to have is a Periodogram that tells us exactly what
price waves are active in a given equity at a given time. What is achievable
is a Periodogram that provides best estimates of the wave situation at hand.
As a result, a Periodogram for price movements is a powerful aid in setting
up a cyclic model but must be considered as nothing more than this. It
serves as an independent source of information as to what waves are active
in price movement at a given time — as opposed to being an absolute
indicator.

  

The process of producing such a Periodogram is so complex as to be beyond
the possibility of manual computation, so the computations required are
normally accomplished by a computer. The computer-generated Period-
ogram does not provide a single line on the display for each price wave. In-
stead, a series of equally spaced lines is produced. These lines vary in height,
and it is the peak in a series of lines as they first build up in amplitude

toa maximum and then dimihish that provides an indication that a price
wave exists.

Such displays are not perfect and will often show smaller peaks that are
rather close together. In such cases prior knowledge of what is to be expec-
ted is of great aid. Both the nominal model and the Principal of Harmonicity
constitute such prior knowledge.

In interpreting a price-movement Periodogram, tabulate each peak (or even
a reasonable hint of the presence of a peak), starting with the longest per-
iods. In doing this you are fully aware that more waves may be tabulated
than actually exist. The strongest and most obvious peaks should be

marked in the tabulation with a comment such as “strong” or “very strong”.

Page 125 ——

 


     
 

LESSON

3

 

—— Page 126

  

 

TT

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

hil

THE PRICE-MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM AND INITIAL
CYCLIC MODEL continued

From this list of Periodogram peaks it is now necessary to select a set of
periods that make sense in relation to the nominal model and the Principle
of Harmonicity. Start with one of the strongest peaks present and note
which period in the nominal model is closest to the period of this peak.
Starting a column just to the left of the column of Periodogram peaks,
enter the appropriate nominal-model period beside the entry of the corres-
ponding strong peak. Knowing approximately what the period of the next
longer and shorter waves should be (from the nominal model), it is usually
a simple matter to select the next tabulated Periodogram peak to corre:
pond. Also, if an intervening tabulation is under consideration, the Prin-
ciple of Harmonicity can be used to help resolve the problem.

  

 

 

The resulting tabulation of nominal and matching Periodogram periods is
called an initial cyclic model. It is seldom that the cyclic model formed in
this way can be directly used as the final current cyclic model needed. How
ever, results will always be produced that are sufficiently close to being
correct to allow the process of refinement by other methods to begin.

Please turn your tape unit off now, and return to the accompanying text
at section five.

SOME FEATURES OF CYCLITEC STOCK AND
COMMODITY CHARTS

By now you may have realized that the display of vertical bars along the
bottom of the large charts used in lessons one and two were actually Period-
ograms, not plots of trading volume as you might first have supposed.
Because trading volume is not very useful in cyclic analysis, the usual plot
of trading volume is deleted. The space thus released is utilized for the

plot of the Periodogram, which is, of course, very useful.

‘As we continue this discussion, please refer to the typical Cyclitec Ser-
vices chart shown in figure 3-14 at the end of section six of the text.

A word of caution: It is very important to realize that the location of the
Periodogram plot on the chart page should not be taken to imply any re-
lationship between a given vertical line in the Periodogram plot and the
price bar that may happen to lie above it on the same vertical grid line.
The price-bar plot and the Periodogram plot are completely independent

 

wo

paasasoy svyara IV
“wuy ‘ssaug S49 €L61 O WSUACOD


8, Inc,

Copyright © 1973 Traders Pres:

 

    

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

iti

SOME FEATURES OF CYCLITEC STOCK AND
COMMODITY CHARTS continued

of each other, with entirely different meanings assigned to their respective
vertical and horizontal axes. The horizontal axis of the Periodogram
represents wave period; the horizontal axis of the price-bar plot represents
calendar time, The vertical axis of the Periodogram represents relative wave
amplitude; the vertical axis of the price-bar plot represents stock or com-
modity price. The two displays could just as well be on two separate sheets
of paper; but the existing arrangement is, of course, more convenient,

One characteristic of the Cyclitee charts that you may have become curious
about is the occurrence of one- and two-day gaps in the daily price-bar
plots. These gaps represent holidays and weekends. It is a curious fact
that cyclic principles operate in calendar time, without regard for whether
the market is open or closed. As a consequence, failure to provide a time
space for the days on which a market is closed would result in distortion
of the wave information. This distortion would be particularly pronounced
for the waves with shorter periods.
You also may have become curious about the number labeled VOL that
appears in the upper right corner of the charts. This number is the volatility
index, which is a measure of the relative rapidity with which prices tend
to change for the equity being plotted.
We have already spent considerable time discussing the Periodogram be-
cause it is so important to us in setting up the initial cyclic model. Another
Cyclitee chart feature that will be very useful to us in phasing analysis is
the Dominancy Envelope.
‘This envelope is a pair of smooth dotted curves, on the upper and lower
sides of price movement, that enclose most of the price bars within a
constant-height channel, It is so constructed as to contain within it the wave
movements in the price action that are most visually evident, that dominate
the visual appearance of the price plot.

A solid centerline is provided for the Dominancy Envelope. From what has
been learned about trend in lesson two, and from the manner of construc-
tion of the Dominancy Envelope, it can be seen that this centerline tends to
represent the trend underlying the dominant price wave for each chart.

 

    

   

 

 

 

The Dominancy Envelope serves as a bridge between the initial cyclic

 

 

 

Page 127


       

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

SOME FEATURES OF CYCLITEC STOCK AND
COMMODITY CHARTS continued

model and actual price movement. Recalling the goal of this lesson, which
is to learn to locate the price lows corresponding to wave troughs of the
current cyclic model, we see that the Periodogram provides a guide as to
what wave periods to look for in the price data. But we still need a transi-
tion from this kind of information to specific knowledge of wave phase
obtained by locating wave troughs in actual price movement. The Domin-
ancy Envelope and its centerline are the principle aids in this transition
process.

At times locating wave troughs in price movement is a relatively simple
task. But at other times it is quite difficult and we must use all the infor-
mation and techniques at our disposal. The Dominancy Envelope and its
centerline perform an invaluable service in this regard.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the accompanying text
at section six.

  

 

TROUGH LOCATION BY FLD’s IN PAST TIME
You have been taught how to formally construct precise FLD’s, and have
seen that one of their major uses is to indicate when an expected wave
trough has been passed.

This trough-location capability of the FLD is available for use not only in
future time, but in past time as well. Used in past time this way, FLD’s
become a powerful aid in the phasing analysis process.

 

Let us suppose that we have an initial indication of a wave period from
the nominal model, the Periodogram, or any other source. Even if this
initial estimate is considerably in error by later comparison with the final
best period estimate, it can still be accurate enough to produce an FLD
that will provide evidence of the occurrence of price lows and highs corres-
ponding to wave troughs and crests.

To use an FLD in this way, the FLD must be observed in past time; that
is, in relation to price bars over the entire body of the chart rather than

just the most recent price bars. As a result, the procedure is somewhat
different than that previously described.

First of all, since the period estimate used is only indicative of the actual
wave period involved, the addition of one to the result of dividing the period

Page 128

poussoy sang HV

“Duy 'ssorg suapes |, gx6t @ Iyskdo


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

‘All Rights Reserved

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 
    

  

Tl | Oy red
ATT i]

TROUGH LOCATION BY FLD’s IN PAST TIME continued

by two when computing the FLD number represents an unwarranted
accuracy assumption. Therefore, the FLD number used for this purpose is
just one-half of the period estimate.

Secondly, the purpose of rounding the FLD number is to permit transfer
of past data to an appropriate future chart grid line. If we are only inter-
ested in past data which clearly forms an FLD break, this nicety also is not,
necessary.

A third difference arises from the fact that we are not using the FLD either
for a precision price projection or to determine the precise time of a break
(as when FLD’s are used as action signal generators). Thus, there is no need
for the path of the FLD to be plotted with precision. Only the more gross
aspects of the movement are of interest.

Finally, we do not want to go to the time and effort of actually drawing
multiple FLD’s over the entire body of a chart,

All of these differences from FLD usage as previously described can be com-
bined into one very simple, fast, and effective method for gaining evidence
of wave trough locations in past time.

Simply lay out on a strip of scratch paper a span of time equal to one-half
of the roughly estimated period. Do not bother with rounding this number,
and take the time measurement directly from the time scale above the
Periodogram on a Cyclitec chart.

Place the left-hand mark on the paper strip on any price average in the
past, keeping the paper strip essentially horizontal. Note with the eye where
the right-hand mark falls in relation to prices. Slide the strip to the right,
generally following the price averages with the left-hand mark — and
retaining the strip in its essentially horizontal position. Continue to note
the movement of the right-hand mark relative to prices until itis clear

that if this FLD had been drawn in at the time location indicated, a price
break would have occurred.

Make a short, light mark on the chart at the approximate time and price
of the indicated break. Then use the time span marked on the paper strip
to measure back the one-half period in which a price low or high associa-
ted with a wave trough or crest is likely to be located.

 

Page 122——


    
 
 

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

* |(ll Hh Ht :

TROUGH LOCATION BY FLD‘s IN PAST TIME continued

With a very small amount of practice you will find this method capable of
producing invaluable information with very little time expenditure.

    

 

 

You will not, of course, be able to prove all, or even most, wave troughs
and crests in this manner. Nor is it necessary to do so. As with all other
cyclic methods, we accept whatever information results from use of the

method; and when information is not forthcoming, we apply a different
method.

pansasoy sn
-auy ssa s19pEay EL6T WEA

It is desirable for you to gain some experience in this method before con-
tinuing, so please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at
section seven.

INTRODUCTION TO PHASING ANALYSIS

You have now been exposed in a gross way to nearly all of the methods

and knowledge needed to produce a current cyclic model. Needless to say,
there are many subtle bits and pieces to be added, but these are best learned
by exercise.

In section five it was seen that the process of interpreting a Periodogram
consists of combining the expectations of basic cyclic concepts in the form of
nominality, harmonicity, and proportionality with information about the
present situation obtained from the Periodogram. The result is an initial
cyclic model.

 

In section six you were introduced to the concepts of the Dominancy En-
velope and its centerline, and it was stated there that the Dominancy
Envelope serves as a link between the initial cyclic model and price data.

Finally, in section seven it was demonstrated that the initial cyclic model
can provide crude wave period estimates which, through the use of FLD's in
past time, can lead to the identification of the time locations of some wave
troughs in price movement.

With this background, you are prepared to proceed with the phasing an-
alysis process. The general procedure for phasing analysis is as follows:

From the charts available for a given equity, select as the starting point
the chart that covers the longest period of time. Thus, using the Cyclitee


 

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,
Rights Reserved

   

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

l] HT] it ] | T ry
cht TALE 3

INTRODUCTION TO PHASING ANALYSIS continued
charts, a phasing analysis begins with the weekly (as opposed to the daily)
chart for all stocks and commodities. The Dow Jones Industrial Average
analysis would begin with the monthly chart. This is an important proced-
ural point and is based on the nature of the cyclic phenomena and the
methods to be used in the phasing analysis process.

 

Similarly, for a given chart analysis begins with the longer period waves.

An entry into the phasing analysis process can be effected in several ways
and results in the time location of one or more price lows associated with
long-period wave troughs.

Once this is done, the Principles of Synchronicity and Harmonicity assure
us that all shorter waves should exhibit troughs at these same time loca-
tions. It is important to note that the reverse of this conclusion is not true.
That is, if a trough for a given wave is located, it does nor follow that
troughs of longer waves should occur at the same time. This is the primary
reason why phasing analysis is started with the longer waves.

 

Having identified one or more trough locations for a long-period wave, we
are then justified in assuming that these same locations define troughs of
the next shorter wave. Then, the expectations of the initial cyclic model are
combined with the composite-wave simplifying effects of the Dominancy
Envelope and its centerline in order to identify the most visually apparent
additional trough locations of this next shorter wave.

One of the most important principles of phasing analysis is this: Only
the most visually apparent troughs are identified initially. The nature of
the complex wave that is price movement is such as to obscure wave trough
evidence in many cases. Rather than making an initial (and perhaps in-
correct) attempt to resolve such ambiguities, the proper technique is to
move on to the process of phasing the next shorter wave. It will be found
that the buildup of cyclic evidence from the non-ambiguous cases will
eventually permit a high confidence solution to the ambiguous ones.

The output of a phasing analysis for a given chart is a best estimate of
the time location of every trough shown on the chart of every wave in the
initial cyclic model. Such information is recorded on the chart in the form

of horizontal rows of diamond shaped marks, with each diamond representing

Page 131——

 


    
  

   

—— Page 132.

a if TH rf i

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

     

INTRODUCTION TO PHASING ANALYSIS | continued

the estimated time location of a wave trough. The upper row of diamonds
represents the longest wave phased on the chart, and each successively
lower row represents a successively shorter wave in the cyclic model.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to secticn eight of the text
for a study summary of the general rules of phasing analysis.

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS

A phasing analysis is entered (or started) by finding evidence that one or
more price lows are associated with troughs of one of the longer waves on
a given chart. This can be accomplished in several ways.

For example, suppose it is a weekly chart that is under analysis. Inspec-
tion will show that the Cyclitec weekly chart consists of 180 price bars
representing 180 weeks of price action.

Knowing this, it is clear that a full cycle of the nominal $4-month wave
can never be seen on this chart because something more than 234 weeks
would be required to do so. But a nominal 18-month cycle can readily show
two full cycles, since 18 months is only 78 weeks. Thus, in this example it

is a near certainty that one, and perhaps two, of the most visually sig-
nificant price lows on the chart will be associated with an 18-month wave.
Once these price lows are tentatively identified, the initial cyclic model

can be used to provide period estimates so that confirming evidence can be
gained using FLD’s in past time as described in section seven.

 

 

Similar reasoning is useful on monthly or daily charts.

Another possible entry starts with the initial cyclic model. The nominal
and Periodogram estimates of a suitably long wave are laid out on a strip
of scratch paper using the time scale just above the Periodogram as a
measure. Three marks should appear on the strip. One at the left serves
as a common reference mark. Two on the right are spaced from the ref-
erence mark by the number of time units equal to the period estimates
from the nominal model and Periodogram, respectively. This impromptu
measuring strip is then moved horizontally along under price bars, and
the visually outstanding price lows separated by time intervals closest to
the period estimates on the strip are marked for further study.

 

 

 

 

 

poaiasay siya IY
“Duy ‘ssa4q S19pE4] C161 @ WIBUKdO:)


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Alll Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

(AM HM Ht el sc

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

Or; phasing analysis entry may be accomplished by starting right off with
FLD's in past time based on periods taken from the initial cyclic model.

   

The most useful, and also the most mechanical, method of entry employs
the Dominancy Envelope and its centerline. Recall that the Dominancy
Envelope was described as being so constructed as to contain the move-
ments of a visually dominating price wave. More accurately, the Dominaney
Ennvelope contains within itself the sum of all price waves equal to, and
shorter than, a specific given wave. It follows, then, that the Dominancy
Envelope centerline is the sum of all longer waves.

From this it is seen that the Dominancy Envelope and its centerline function
to divide price movement into two parts, each of which is a composite

wave formed by summing consecutive waves of a cyclic model. As a result,
each part is a vastly simpler composite wave than total price movement.
This explains why this envelope can serve as a link between the initial

cyclic model and total price movement. Its function is to simplify the com-
posite wave of price movement, permitting easier visual identification and
separation of the component waves indicated by the initial cyclic model.

 

‘The Dominancy Envelope centerline is most useful in aiding in the identi-
fication of longer waves. The price oscillations about the centerline, and
contained by the envelope itself, are most useful in identification of the
shorter waves. In fact, the Dominancy Envelope centerline is seen to be a
representation of the trend underlying the longest wave contained by the
Dominancy Envelope. This interpretation leads to the realization that the
fluctuations of this centerline are most likely to correspond to the effects
of the wave just longer than the longest wave contained by the envelope.
This conclusion is the basis for the phasing analysis entry using the Dom-
inancy Envelope centerline.

This method involves noting the most major centerline fluctuations. Then
using a strip of scratch paper, several sample measurements taken roughly
from low to low and high to high of these fluctuations are compared to

the time scale on the chart. If the range of these period measurements
corresponds reasonably well with nominal model expectations and with the
shape of the Periodogram in this period region, additional confidence is
estab’ished in the value of the observations. In such cases, the lowest price

Page 133

 


eM inna

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

    

ENTERING A PHASING ANALYSIS | continued

low in the vicinity of each of the centerline lows can be marked as a
strong contender for association with a long wave trough.

All of the methods described in this section, as well as other methods,

can be combined to provide strengthened evidence of wave trough locations.
However, in this lesson, emphasis will be plaged on phasing analysis entry
via the Dominancy Envelope centerline.

You should turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section
nine for examples and exercises in entering a phasing analysis.

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS

In the last section, attention was concentrated on the oscillation of the
Dominancy Envelope centerline as an aid to phasing analysis entry. It is,
the purpose of this section to demonstrate the techniques of extending the
phasing analysis effort.

‘The function of the Dominaney Envelope and its centerline has been des-
cribed as wave-period division. This concept should be firmly understood
in order to gain maximum benefit from this useful computerized aid. We
can make use of your newly acquired knowledge of Periodograms to help
provide this understanding,

 

Imagine a price motion Periodogram with a vertical line drawn on it
the valley between two peaks. Then the Dominancy Envelope centerline
is the sum of all waves to the right of the vertical line, including all those
too long to be shown on the Periodogram. Similary, the price movement
within the envelope is the sum of all waves to the left of the vertical line,
including those too short to appear on the Periodogram.

 

In making the phasing analysis entries in the last section, the initial cyclic
model was used as a guide to interpreting the fluctuations of the Dominancy
Envelope centerline, and the price movement within the envelope was
ignored. In extending a phasing analysis, the fluctuations of the centerline
are ignored while attention is focused on price movement within

the envelope. Again, the initial cyclic model is used as a guide to wave-
period expectations, and direct comparison of these expectations with

price movement is employed.

 

Page 134

Pacosoy siya ity
“DUT ‘ss01g SH9PEAY EL6I @ IYSLUKdO;


oe ress, Ine.
Copyright © 1973 Traders Press,
‘All Rights Reserved

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

ST
ree x

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS | continued

A phasing analysis extension takes place in four steps. First, advantage is
taken of the fact that the Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity
require troughs of all waves shorter than a given wave to occur at the same
time as the troughs of the given wave. The reverse, of course, is not true.
That is, given the trough locations of one wave, it does not follow that all
longer waves have troughs at the same times. But, since phasing starts with
a long wave and proceeds to successively shorter ones, direct advantage
can be taken of the combined effects of Harmonicity and Synchronicity

by immediately placing phasing diamonds for the next shorter wave in the
time locations of each diamond for the longer wave phased just earlier.
Obviously this effortless location of such wave troughs results in steadily
increased ease in component separation as a phasing analysis continues.

In this first extension step, all of the troughs of the longer wave used for
analysis entry may not have been located as yet. As phasing of successively
shorter waves proceeds, evidence will build up for eventual complete phas-
ing of the longer wave.

In the second extension step, attention is concentrated only on the part of
price movement between each set of consecutive trough locations of the
wave phased just earlier. The Principle of Harmonicity would lead to the
expectation of finding a trough of the next shorter wave approximately half
way between these locations. In addition, the period estimates of the initial
cyclic model can be used to help in the search for such troughs. This results
in a series of trough identifications with a maximum confidence level. In
turn, these trough locations supply wave-period samples that are used to
improve the probability of correct choices in succeeding steps. As usual,
ambiguous situations are left for later resolution,

When there are no more sets of consecutive troughs of the next longer
wave to be examined, the third step of phasing extension is taken. The
method used is direct comparison (by means of a measuring strip) of initial
cyclic model expectations augmented by the period sample results of step
‘two. Such comparison explorations are made to the right and left of next-
longer wave diamonds for which no consecutive diamond is available in the
direction explored. Again, period samples are obtained to aid the following
step, and ambiguous cases are left for later resolution.

 

Page 135——

  


LESSON UU nN T ll
tn | at i

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 

EXTENDING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

When no further work can be done in the manner of step three, direct com-
parison is employed against raw price data. Phasing diamonds are placed
only for the most obviously correct situations.

When a given wave has been completely phased or when the methods of all
four steps have been exhausted in attempts to phase the wave, the whole
process is repeated for the next-shorter wave.

Performing the extension of phasing analysis in the steps just described
has a definite purpose. This method permits work to progress in a manner
which always employs a maximum of component separation aid and which
permits a body of evidence to mount to support phasing of the more sus-
pect situations.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section ten
for examples and exercises.

COMPLETING A PHASING ANALYSIS

The entry and extension of a phasing analysis involve subjective judge-
ments on the part of the analyst based upon knowledge of basic cyclic
concepts and aided by computer generated displays. By contrast, completing
a phasing analysis is a nearly mechanical procedure.

First, the shortest wave phased must have all of its troughs located. If
this has not been accomplished in the extension effort, then one of two
courses of action should be followed.

If only a few obvious gaps exist between phasing diamonds for this short-
est wave because of lack of clear-cut price-movement evidence of the ex-
pected wave troughs, then these gaps must be filled in, arbitrarily if neces-
sary. This action is justified because we have already accumulated a large
body of evidence that this wave exists in the price data and we know that
the complexity of composite price waves is fully capable of obscuring occas-
ional wave trough positions.

If the gaps in the phasing of this shortest wave are numerous, then a still
shorter wave must be phased in order to provide additional information
with which to locate the missing diamonds.

POE 136

paasosoy sqara NV
-ouy ‘ssaag suapeay EL6T O WSKAOD

 

 


   

  

© CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

I] ll NM | | ry
CCE x

COMPLETING A PHASING ANALYSIS continued

Ordinarily it is sufficient to phase a weekly chart down to and including
the nominal 10-week wave, as in the copper example of the last section.
Similarly, a daily chart would ordinarily be phased down to and including
the nominal 10-day wave. However, on occasion it will be found necessary
to continue the extension effort to include the nominal S-week or 5-day
wave in order to obtain a fully phased wave.

 

‘There may even be times when the S-week or 5-day wave cannot be com-
pletely phased. However, it is impractical to attempt to phase waves shorter
than 5 weeks on a weekly chart or 5 days on a daily chart. Even so, in such
situations it is usually not necessary to abandon the analysis, The consid-
erations involved and the means employed in handling these occurrences
will be discussed in a later lesson, But for the present discussion, let us
assume that if the extension has been driven to the 5-week or 5-day wave,
this wave can be fully phased.

Once the shortest wave is fully phased, the task of completing a phasing
analysis consists of a mechanical process called filling the harmonic gaps.
For each case except that involving the 18-month and $4-month waves, a
trough of a given wave is assumed to exist at every other trough of the next
shorter wave. Thus, the Principle of Harmonicity is applied directly to

the completion of the phasing analysis. Missing diamonds for successively
longer waves are supplied on the evidence of shorter wave trough locations
coupled with knowledge of harmonic p relationships.

 

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section eleven
where this process will be applied to the copper example of section ten.

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS

In the last section you participated in the process of phasing analysis as.
applied to a weekly Cyclitec chart,

ights Reserved

 

2

You learned that certain specific rules of procedure were followed and that
basic cyclic concepts as well as computer-generated aids were employed to
permit deduction of the necessary conclusions.

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘You have seen how the process of phasing analysis consists of an entry,
successive steps of extension, and completion. There are several modes of
entry possible and several successive steps to extension aad completion.

Page 137——

 


 

LESSON iH My T] T
i Ht

 

Page 138

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS continued
Throughout the process, basic cyclic concepts and Periodogram informa-
tion (in the form of an initial cyclic model) are linked to the composite

price wave through the price-movement simplifying function of the Dom-
inaney Envelope and its centerline.

You will be exposed to the phasing analysis of the daily chart of the copper
example in a few minutes, but first, let's add a few new ideas that will fur-
ther increase your skill in phasing analysis.

 

The process of phasing analysis is an inexact art — and full recognition of
this fact is essential to success. It is a physical impossibility to have at
hand perfect information on both wave phase and price-time movements
at one and the same time. This is not due to faults in methods, but is re~
lated to mathematical law.

As a consequence, the process of phasing analysis — which is the process
of isolation of individual wave components and generation of information
regarding their phase status — can never be exact. The purpose of a phas-
ing analysis is to form best estimates as to which waves are active and
whether they will be acting to elevate or depress prices in the near future.

 

The point to be made is that the most workmanlike and effective job of
phasing analysis that is possible should be done, but that excessive con-
cern regarding the absolute correctness of the results should be avoided.

Experience shows that a wave equivalent to each wave in the nominal model
is always at work in price movement. The Principle of Variation tells us
that there will be times when one particular wave is weak and ineffectual,
but this does not negate its presence. As a consequence, phasing must
always be accomplished for a current-time equivalent of each wave in the
nominal model, A chart should never be phased as though one or more of
these waves were not present.

 

 

Remembering that the objective of phasing analysis is to estimate the time
positions of wave troughs by visually identifying them in price action, the
analyst must always be aware of the distinction between wave troughs

and crests and the associated price lows and highs. The composite wave

that is price movement is very complex. The combination of simple price
waves by summation to form total price movement results in time differences

 

we

paaesay wus IV
“Duy 'ssodd S49P RAL C161 @ 1YBIUKdoD

oO


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,

Al Rights Reserved

 
 

 
  

  

 
 

     

oe
Counste LL ILL

 

CONSIDERATIONS AFFECTING PHASING ANALYSIS continued
between wave troughs and price lows, and between wave crests and price
highs.
This phenomenon of time differences is called time translation. When time
translation is related to wave troughs and price lows it is called low ¢rans-
lation. When related to wave crests and price highs it is called high transla-
tion. Time translation will be discussed and exemplified in the text and
can be of considerable use in the process of phasing analysis.
You should turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section
twelve.
EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING
ANALYSIS
‘The purpose of this lesson is to provide you with the basic capability of
setting up a current cyclic model. The process involves interpreting a Period-
ogram; combining this information with the Principle of Nominality to
obtain an initial eyclic model; entering, extending and completing a phas-
ing analysis; then extracting information from the phasing analysis to
permit formation of the current cyclic model.

 

Information taken from a phasing analysis is of two kinds; that which
pertains to the imminence, type, and desirability of a potential trade, and
that which results in a current cyclic model. The information extracting
process is much the same for both.

The first step is to determine the average of the wave-period samples found
in the phasing analysis. This is best done by starting with the shortest
wave phased because it will have numerous wave-period samples available.

    

To find the average sample length, note the grid line number of the phasing
diamond furthest to the right. From this, subtract the grid line number of
the phasing diamond furthest to the left. Divide the result by the number
of period samples represented by that particular row of diamonds.

The result is the best available estimate of the current period of that wave
and is suitable for inclusion in the current cyclic model.

This first step is repeated for each wave phased.

The second step provides estimates of trough locations in future time for

SS Pre 139


—— Page 140.

     
    

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

EXTRACTING INFORMATION FROM A PHASING
ANALYSIS | continued

each of the waves phased. The average period for a given wave is laid out
on a measuring strip. Then the length of each period sample for the wave
i also laid out on the strip, one on top of the other, measured from a com-
mon reference mark. When complete, this strip contains the length of the
average period and an indication of the range of expected variation. The
reference mark on the strip is then placed at the most recent phasing
diamond of the wave, and, measuring into future time, the average period
and range of variation are transferred to the chart. This is repeated for
each wave, and the result is a graphical presentation of the future times

at which nests-of-lows of varying effectivity are likely to occur.

Finally, the time elapsed from the most recent phasing diamond for each
wave to current time is noted and entered as the phase of the wave in the
current cyclic model. These entries permit notation (by arrow) of the phase
status or current impetus of each wave.

You should turn your tape unit off now, and return to the text at section
thirteen for an example and discussion of the process of extracting infor-
mation from a phasing analysis.

CONCLUSION

Now that you have completed your assignments for lesson three, a cele-
bration is in order! Lessons two and three comprise the bulk of the new
knowledge needed to make use of the powerful tools of eyclie analysis in
trading and investing. You have been exposed briefly to a large body of
new ideas, and you probably wonder whether it is ever possible for you to
actually learn to apply these ideas in an efficient and effective manner.

Rest assured; it is not as large a task as it seems.

In lesson two you gained an overall picture of how cyclic concepts can be
used to arrive at transaction decisions. But that lesson left you with the
“spark-plug” missing — how to form a current cyclic model.

So it was necessary in lesson three to provide you with a basic understand-
ing of this important process.

You do not need to feel that you must have gained a facility for perform-
ing all the operations described in lessons two and three at this time. This

 

 

Budde

poasasoy S143 TV
“yup ssa S1OPULL EL6T O MF


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

  

 

  
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  

TS
Ae
eH
CONCLUSION continued

will come with the experience and practice of following lessons. It is enough
that you are now aware of what can be done and, in a general way, how

to do it.

Please study the summary and glossary in the lesson three text well, and
test your comprehension using the self-examination. The less you find it
necessary to refer back to lessons two and three as you do the assignments
of subsequent lessons, the more quickly expertise in cyclic analysis will

be gained.

Please return to the text at section fourteen.

This is the end of the tape for the Cyclitec Services Training Course,
lesson number three.

—_.s $e 141


 

 

 

J.M. Hurst
Cycles Course

Lesson 4:
Setting Up a Transaction

  

a — aed,
TRADERS PRESS, INC?

Greenville, SC 29606

Serving Traders Since 1975

 

 


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SETTING UPA TRANSACTION

PLEASE INSTALL THE LESSON NO. 4 CASSETTE IN YOUR TAPE UNIT
AND TURN THE UNITON


 

 

Data and materials are furnished by CycliTec Services to subscribers for their private
use. Information and opinions, expressed or implied, are based on techniques and/or
Sources believed to be reliable, but accuracy or completeness is not guaranteed.
Principals of or persons of entities affiliated with or having an interest in CycliTec
‘Services may, from time to time, prior and/or subsequent to the dissemination of data
‘and materials relating to specific securities, hold interests in said securities.

CycliTec Services is registered as Investment Adviser with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Investment Adviser Act of 1940.

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.
All Rights Reserved

 


~~ Al Rights Reserved

TABLE OF CONTENTS

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

§

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Alll Rights Reserved

 

CYCLITEC irs Pr
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

 

Reet ee ne a
‘Two-Finger Measurement, Medium Time Spans. . Page 18

|. Two-Finger Measurement, Long Time Spans... .Page 19

‘Two-Finger Measurement, Price Moves......... Page 20
Two-Finger FLD’s ..........-+ Madge toes. 22 Page 21
. Homestake Mining, Weekly, 22 December 1972. .Page 42

3. Homestake Mining, Daily, 22 December 1972... . Page 43

 

4-10.
411,
4-12.
4-13.
4-14,

 
  

Daily FPA for HM
Weekly FLD Patterns for HM
Daily FLD Patterns for HM.
Results of the HM Transaction Analysis .....Page 73

 

Page ii__.


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
 

 
 

 

(it
REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION

© Lesson one described the existence and characteristics of waves in equity
price movement.

@ Lesson two demonstrated how knowledge of these waves and their char-
acteristics can be used to generate transaction-decision information —
provided that a current cyclic model is available.

© Lesson three presented the techniques for assembly of the current cyclic
model.

© The material presented in these three lessons constitutes an overview of
cyclic concepts as applied to the price movements of negotiable equities.
It is far from complete, however, and applications to actual transactions
should be postponed until the entire course has been completed.

© The material of lessons one, two, and three is very fundamental and you
should be able to draw upon it by instinct. The overview summary of the
following paragraphs is intended to help you place the ideas studied so far
in proper perspective. You should augment your study of this section by
referral to previous lessons as you find it necessary or desirable to do so.

@ The price movements of all negotiable equities have a great deal in com-
mon. This is the basis for the very important Principle of Commonality
on which the entire process of cyclic analysis depends.

 

© These common elements are described by seven fundamental principles
which should be memorized. They are the Principles of Cyclicality, Sum-
mation, Harmonicity, Synchronicity, Proportionality, Nominality, and
Variation.

 

© The essential characteristics described by these principles can be stated in
condensed form as follows:

1. All price movement consists of the sum of individual price waves.

2. All price waves tend to have periods that are related by a small,
whole number; tend to have amplitudes that are proportional to per-
iod; and tend to have simultaneous troughs wherever possible.

3. A specific set of waves tends to appear in the price movements of all
negotiable equities.

tr.

th H A

 

 

4

 


 

  

reer

4

  

   

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued
4. The waves active in a given equity at a given time tend to exhibit
variation from ideal wave expectations.

© The basic principles do not provide transaction information directly.
Instead, they give rise to a set of methods and techniques known as cy-
clic analysis.

© Cyclic analysis is the means whereby a potential transaction can be com-
pletely evaluated before transaction entry. Such evaluation is best accom-
plished before the price reversal that makes the transaction possible.

© A transaction evaluation is achieved through a succession of intermediate
processes:

1. Separation of price movement into component price waves

2. Assembly of a current cyclic model

3. Determination of the transaction price objective and stop-loss level
4

. Determination of a transaction entry price consistent with an accep-
table potential-risk ratio and potential percentage profit

5, Selection of an action signal which suitably confirms expected price-
wave action.

© The tools of cyclic analysis include a new definition of trend; the rules for
construction and use of valid trend lines (VTL's); and the rules for con-
struction and interpretation of future lines of demarcation (FLD's).

 

© The principal use of trend is to determine whether an equity should be
bought or sold short.

© A primary use of VTL's is locating wave troughs in price movement.
© A primary use of FLD’s is making price projections.

© In addition to these primary usages, each of these analysis tools has many
subsidiary uses.

© Price movement is separated into component waves by formal phasing
analysis, or FPA for short.

Page 2

paasasay s1y8PK TTY

“aay ssoag s39pe4] CLT @ WSUAdOD

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

UT
hi

 

REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued

© FPA is accomplished using an initial cyclic model, the Periodogram, the
Dominaney Envelope, and the Domirancy Envelope centerline.

©@ An initial cyclic model is a tabulation of wave period pairs derived from
the nominal cyclic model and interpretation of the Periodogram.

© The Periodogram is a plot of wave amplitude versus period. It is inter-
preted with the aid of the Principles of Nominality and Harmonicity.

 

© The Dominancy Envelope and its centerline function as a period-divider.
They serve as a bridge between the initial cyclic model and raw price data
by focusing attention on simplified composite price waves.

© An FPA provides a best estimate of the time positions of all troughs of
all waves of the initial cyclic model. This is done in four ordered steps:

1. Entry

2. Extension

3. Completion

4, Information extraction.

© An FPA entry is effected by locating the time positions of one or more
troughs of a relatively long wave. The two most commonly used entry
methods are:

1. Use of oscillations of the Dominancy Envelope centerline to locate
troughs of the pre-dominant wave

2. Use of FLD’s in past time to identify trough locations of any rela-
tively long wave.

© FPA extensions take place in four ordered steps:
1. Direct application of the Principle of Synchronicity

2. Search for wave troughs between consecutive troughs of the next
longer wave

3. Search for wave troughs to either side of the time positions of isola-
ted wave troughs of the next longer wave

ATT]
Ha

 

 

ery

Br

 

 


 
 
   

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES

TRAINING
COURSE©

ne

REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued

4, Search for wave troughs by direct comparison of best wave period
estimates with raw price data.

@ FPA completion takes place in two ordered steps:

1. Gap filling for the shortest wave phased to obtain a complete set
of trough position estimates for this wave

2. Harmonic gap filling for successively longer waves.
© EPA information extraction takes place in four steps:

1. The wave-period samples are averaged to obtain an estimate for the
period of each wave.

2. This period estimate is used in conjunction with last known wave
trough positions and the period-sample variations from average
period to establish the time of probable future nests-of-lows.

3. Wave phase is determined as the elapsed time from the last known
wave trough position to present time.

4, Current-time wave direction is derived directly from wave phase in-
formation and known wave characteristics.

© Three general rules apply to FPA effort:

1. FPA extension always proceeds from long waves to successively
shorter ones.

2. FPA completion always proceeds from the shortest wave phased to
successively longer ones.

3, The wave trough samples for which the most supporting evidence ex-
ists are always phased first. Ambiguous situations are left for resolu-
tion later in the analysis when more supporting evidence may be
available.

© An FPA results in three cyclic analysis essentials:

1. A graphical representation of the estimated time positions of all
wave troughs in the form of phasing diamonds

P60 ——$————————————————

 

 

paasasay S1g3ry ITV
“buy 38019 SOPEEL EL61 @ BEKAO

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

      

te

 

  

      

REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued

2.

A graphical representation of the expected time of near-future nests-
of-lows

3. The information required for assembly of the current cyclic model.

@ A current cyclic model is an organized tabulation of most of the informa-
tion extracted from an FPA. It consists of:

3.

4.
5.

The estimated direction of ¥L, which is the trend underlying the
longest wave phased in the FPA

The nominal cyclic model wave periods paired with the wave-period
sample averages of the FPA

‘The phase of each wave in terms of time elapsed since the last known
wave trough

The current-time direction of action of each wave

The FLD number for each wave based upon the FPA average period.

© The current cyclic model provides immediate information related to the
imminency and magnitude of potential price reversals.

© Even more important, the current cyclic model provides the basis for iden-
tification of valid trend lines, for FLD construction, and for future trend
estimation.

© The current cyclic model permits a complete VTL, FLD analysis, includ-
ing multiple FLD pattern interpretation. This results in establishment of a
transaction objective and a logical stop-loss level.

© Once an objective and a stop-loss level have been established, a transac-
tion entry price can be determined for which potential-risk ratio and gross
potential percentage are acceptable.

 

© The FPA, the current cyclic model, and specific transaction conditions
are used to determine the most effective action signal.

© The cyclic analysis processes which follow FLD pattern interpretation are
referred to as setting up the transaction.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

Hunt
itd

 

ll4

Page 5.

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

syeuites TU
TRAINING NTT NTI ti |
COURSEO

TWO KINDS OF RISK
© There are two kinds of risk associated with a transaction:

1. Risk potential, which is an estimate of the amount of capital that
will be lost if a transaction is stopped out instead of proceeding as
expected to produce a profit

2. Transaction risk, which is the percentage probability that the trans-
action will be stopped out at a loss instead of terminated at a profit.

© Risk potential can be estimated with reasonable accuracy before transac-
tion entry.

© Transaction risk cannot be evaluated as clearly and objectively. Never-
theless, there is much the cyclic analyst can do to obtain strong impres-
sions of the degree of transaction risk involved in a given situation,

@ There are two basic approaches to assessing transaction risk:

1, For each wave situation that is considered during the cyclic analysis,
examine evidence produced by several different analysis methods,
Conclusions drawn from well confirmed evidence lead to lower risk
transactions than do conclusions for which some evidence is con-
flicting.

2. Take into account the types of wave situations that give rise to low
or high transaction risk conditions.

© Before discussing some of the wave situations that affect transaction risk,
it is necessary to define the terms edge-band and mid-band. These terms
originated with early cyclic analysis methods. The methods are now obso-
lete, but the terms persist and are useful, as explained in the following
paragraphs.

@ Each wave in a cyclic model can be used as the basis for an envelope
similar to the Dominancy Envelope (and similarly functioning as a period
divider). Such envelopes have a constant vertical width when drawn on a
chart and are also called channels. Each such channel just contains nearly
all of the price movement of the price wave on which it is based.

@ The constant vertical width of such a channel is called a band.

 

 

Pr

Page 6 —


  

  

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

a nt

TWO KINDS OF RISK continued

© When price movement is at or near the top or bottom of a channel it is
said to be in an edge-band state.

   

© When price movement is at or near a point half way between the top and
bottom of a channel it is said to be in a mid-band state.

© The following wave situations are among those that affect transaction risk.

1. Edge-band transactions are subject to more risk than mid-band
transactions

 

2. Long transactions entered near nests-of-lows that contain long waves
wolve increased transaction risk. If the nest contains waves that are
eighteen months and longer, the risk is particularly high.

3. Short transactions near expected price tops involve an especially
high degree of transaction risk.

© Transaction risk is also a function of the skill of the eyclic analyst and
the degree and quality of emotional control that the trader or investor is
able to exercise during a transaction.

© Situations affecting transaction risk will be pointed out and emphasized
throughout the workshops of this and subsequent lessons.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Pe

 

poaosay sia IV

“pay ‘ssaug Sop] EL6T @ WBLAKdOD


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

COURSEO©

CYCLITEC m0 wu
SERVICES }
zebiiee [nt

 

HOW TO PREDICT TREND

© Once a current cyclic model is in hand, it is theoretically possible to esti-
mate the current and future direction of the trend underlying all of the
waves in the model. It is seldom useful to do this, but it is often desirable
to form such an estimate for one or several of the waves of the model.

 

The means of estimating trend is provided by a simple technique based on
the Principle of Proportionality.

© The technique makes use of a particular phenomenon, stemming from
proportionality, that is demonstrated in figure 4-1.

© In this figure, four ideal, proportional waves are shown. The waves selec-
ted are also harmonically related, as they would be in a cyclic model; but
this is not a necessary condition for the phenomenon under discussion.
‘The important factor is that the waves are proportional. For the purpose
of the illustration, the phases of the waves are adjusted so that they all
cross the zero axis at the same point (P).

© The slope, or slant, of each wave as it passes through point P is a meas-
ure of the largest price change per unit of time (day, week, month, etc.)
that each wave is capable of producing. It can be seen from the figure that
this slope is exactly the same for each wave no matter what the wave am-
plitude and period is.

© This means that a 7-day ideal wave with an amplitude of 5 price units is
capable of producing just as rapid a price change, say, as a 70-day wave
with an amplitude of 50 price units. (Note that proportionality has been
carefully maintained in this example.)

 

© The resulting technique used in estimating trend is not seriously in error
when applied over a full half cycle of each wave, as indicated by the
dashed line of figure 4-1. In fact, the error involved is less than that expec-
ted to occur as a result of variation from Harmonicity and Proportionality.

For an estimate of trend at current time, the technique is used as follows:

1. From the current cyclic model, find the direction of action of each
wave longer than the wave the desired trend underlies.

2. Find the difference between the number of up arrows and down


     
 

  

  

 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

Pn

HOW TO PREDICT TREND continued

arrows, ignoring bottoming or topping symbols and considering only
the waves longer than the wave the desired trend underlies.

 

3, If there are more up arrows than down arrows the desired trend is
considered to be up.

4, If there are more down arrows than up arrows, the desired trend is
considered to be down.

5. The strength of the trend is measured by the net number of arrows

left after the number of arrows in one direction are subtracted from
the number of arrows in the other direction.

© Given a current cyclic model, an estimate can be formed for any desired
trend at any desired future time by the following procedure:

1. Add the desired number of days, weeks, or months of future time to
the phase of each wave that is longer than the wave the desired
trend underlies.

2. Using this modified phase information, reevaluate each wave direc-
tion at the new time.

3. To establish the new estimate of trend direction, find the difference
between the number of up arrows and the number of down arrows
at the new time.

4. Repeat this process for as many future times as needed.

© As an example assume that 20 days is the period-sample average for one
of the waves of a current cyclic model. Suppose further that at present
time this wave is seen to be 6 days along from the last known trough.
Then current and near-future wave directions would be estimated as fol-
lows:

1. At current time the 20-day wave is 6 days along. Wave direction is +.

2. Two days in the future the 20-day wave is 8 days along. Wave direc-
tion is +.

3. Four days in the future the 20-day wave is 10 days along. Wave
direction is ~~.

Page 9

 

paasasoy Syne ITV
-puy ‘ssoug s19pUa] EL6T O WBLAKAO,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

or

 

HOW TO PREDICT TREND continued

4. Six days in the future the 20-day wave is 12 days along, Wave direc-
tion is}.

© For each wave longer than a selected wave, this process can be completed
for several future times over the desired future time interval. Then, for
each future time investigated, the difference between the up and the down
arrows (including the 2L arrow) can be determined. From these differ-
ences, an estimate can be made of the changes in trend strength and di-
rection over the desired future time interval.

© The current cyclic model for the copper example of lesson three is repro-
duced below.

    

    
 

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL 4/ v.72

 

      

  
    

     
 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOMINAL] ACTUAL PHASE STATUS FLO NUMBER

wees DAYS

T8M(78W)| 9.2.6 w/ Ww 2 423 =
[9MGWW) | ye.3u7_ saw ws | ams 163.0
20W av 31W Zs 25.3
80D 95.30 72 TL 49-6
40D | 4270 22 ft 249
20D | 23.40 72 t __| var
i) W390 20 i 7

ED} 59D 72 t 3.49)

 

 

 

 

 

 

@ As an exercise, assume the need for an estimate of the trend underlying
the 47.7-day wave over a 6-week time interval into the future.

In order to do this, an estimate of this trend is required for each week
over this 6-week time period. This is obtained by first adding increments

of one week to the current time phase status of each wave longer than 47.7
days until a total of 6 weeks have been added. Then, the direction of ac-

tion for each wave is determined for each individual week up to and includ-
ing the 6th week. From a tabulation of these results, the trend underlying

the 47.7-day wave can then be estimated for each of the required time periods
by noting the difference between up and down wave action direction arrows
ateach time.


yy

section three ine

HOW TO PREDICT TREND continued
© The calculations for the desired trend estimates are summarized in the
following table:

PHASE AND DIRECTION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ar gap | mW 46. W 920 W Net
Time Wave Wave Wave Wave | Trend
Now topt | 31.0 Ww 52.0 We aows | +1t
+iw | wont | x9wt o7wt sawt | +4t
+2w | aopt | sowt saw} | oawt | +4t
+aw | 2ovt | 99wt srwt mawt | +4t
+aw | asopt | 1owt 97 wt sawt | +4
+sw | aon} | nowe | worwt | sawt | tat
sow | soo) | now, | nzwt | wawt o-

 

 

 

 

 

 

© In your estimates you should have ignored ¥L (in this instance) since its
direction is now flat and is not expected to change during the next six
weeks. (The shortest wave in the 3L composite is at least twice as long
as 18 months and is therefore changing very slowly.)

@ In the current cyclic model, the 24.1 week, 46.3-week, and 92.6-week
waves are shown with phase times longer than their average periods. This
means that the probability is high that the troughs have actually occurred
and that by the time another week has passed, the bottoming action will
have been completed. We therefore consider that at the + 1 W time, the
direction of these three waves is up and will remain so for one half cycle.
To carry this assumption forward into the additional future weeks, we need
to re-express the phase of these waves in terms of the new assumption. We
find that we have two alternatives. One is to assume that the troughs
occurred at the same time as the 95.3-day trough. The other, which is less
favorable to the transaction because the next crests will occur earlier,
is to assume that the troughs occurred an average wave period from the

 

  

026. $$$

poaseng SW3RL IV
-auy ssaug S19pB1L E61 @ WAKO


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

   

HOW TO PREDICT TREND continued

last known low. The latter assumption is used because it is more con-
servative.

© The 95.3-day wave presents no special problem since it is shown at now
time as having a phase of 7 days and an up direction, all completely
straightforward.

© For the first four weeks into the future, all four waves longer than the
47.7-day wave are estimated to be up, providing a net result of + 4 (four
up arrows). This result implies a very strong upward trend underlying the
47.7-day wave during this future time interval,

 

© In the fifth week, the 24.1-week wave is topping and is therefore making
no contribution to trend, either up or down. The net result is + 3 (three up
arrows and one flat arrow).

© In the sixth week, the 95.3-day and 24.1-week waves have topped out and
are now down, but the 46.3-week and 92.6-week waves are still up. The
net effect is zero (two up arrows and two down).

© In considering these results, we must remember that trend (as a compos-
ite wave) shows rounded tops just as total price movement does. (There-
fore, it is not likely that the trend we are analyzing will be strongly up for
five weeks and then abruptly change to flat, We conclude that inherent
inaccuracies in our rule-of-thumb technique are resulting in an inexact
picture. The best we can say is that for the next three or four weeks the
trend underlying the 47.7-day wave is likely to be strongly up. Then for
the next few weeks the upward strength is likely to diminish until the
trend is nearly flat.

© The estimate just discussed would have been made on the 24th of Novem-
ber 1972. Then, as new wave troughs came about and were identified, the
estimate would have been revised. In this way, by the time trend was due
to slow down or reverse, estimates of greatly increased accuracy would
have been available.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

ee 12


a somqasas 92, 119K

 

 

SAdO1S WNWIXYW IVIILNAG! JAVH SAAVM TWNOILYOdOYd TWwadl t’ 3YNdId

 

GN3aL 19103ad OL MOH

sna tv
e passsy @

sup ‘ssaug SOPH €L61 @ WBUAIOD

Page 13


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

  
  

 
 

   

22
couRstS TH Le fl

 

LT

COURSEO©

ACTION SIGNALS REVISITED

@ The concept behind an action signal is that future price movement must
confirm that predicted wave events are actually coming about before ac-
tion is initiated in a transaction,

@ An action signal can consist of any price movement that an analyst is
willing to accept as sufficient evidence of the confirmation of expected
wave events.

© There are many types of future price events that can be chosen to serve
as action signals, but the most commonly used are:

1. A price break of a VTL
2. A price break of an FLD
3. A price break of a horizontal price line.

© Action signals may be used in many ways. A stop-loss level is an action
signal. Other price events can be used for buy signals, sell-short signals,
protect-profit signals, or just for alerting, warning, or giving assurance.

@ For example, a decision could be made to enter or terminate a transac-
tion when an action signal is triggered (or as soon thereafter as possible),
Or the decision might be made to let the action signal serve as an alert
to reassess the situation and to initiate transaction action only if certain
additional criteria are met.

© In general, risk evaluation is associated with action signal selection. The
action signal concept is itself intended to reduce transaction risk but this
is sometimes accomplished at the expense of potential-risk ratio,

© Numerous examples of action signal selection will be presented in the
workshops along with the cyclic logic that leads to the proper choice.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

——_—. ge 1s


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘Al Rights Reserved

  

   

CYCLITEC Il I TT mM ul oo
SERVICES i
TRAINING il y HH nA

CouRsee LHL

   

THE TWO-FINGER TECHNIQUE

© Formal cyclic analysis techniques such as those presented so far in the
course are essential to the transaction decision process. But methods of
extracting information much more rapidly are also needed even if the re-
sults are not so precise.

© Rapid methods are necessary for several reasons, Among these is the need
to scan the charts of a number of equities in a short space of time in the
search for situations which warrant the expenditure of additional analysis
time and effort.

© A method called the nvo-finger technique is common to all rapid informa-
tion extraction processes. The technique consists of using two fingers of
either hand to measure time or price activities on a chart instead of the
more accurate but slower measuring strip. A little practice is needed, but
the necessary skill is quickly acquired.

© Approximate averaging of several time or price samples is obtained by
making finger position adjustment as the hand is moved from sample to
sample.

  

© The two-finger technique is primarily used in the processes of:
1. Determining the trading cycle
2. Extracting information from past-time FLD objectives
3. Rapid scanning in either of two modes.

© These processes will be discussed in detail and separately in sections six,
seven, and eight.

© In figure 4-2 the two-finger technique is illustrated as being used to obtain
rapid wave-period estimates. The finger positions shown are measuring
the time interval between the nests-of-lows at about grid line 26 and the
nest-of-lows at 56, The hand would then be moved to compare this meas-
urement with the next period sample between grid lines 56 and 84, adjus-
ting finger spacing to accomplish rough averaging in the process. This
would be repeated for all other visually evident samples, and then the
hand would be moved to the time scale to note the resulting average
period estimate in time units.

ge BL


  

rr

4

  

Mil

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

THE TWO-FINGER TECHNIQUE continued
©@ In this case the estimate would be read as “about 32”. A glance at the
Periodogram confirms the fact that this is a reasonable estimate.

© Figure 4-3 demonstrates the two-finger technique as applied to estimating
the period of the next longer wave. The Ist and 4th fingers are used here.

@ Still longer time measurements are made as shown in figure 4.4.

© Figure 4-5 shows the two-finger technique being used to measure the price
move associated with the composite wave consisting of the 32-day wave
(identified in figure 4-2) and all shorter waves. Such measurements would
be averaged by finger spacing adjustment, and the result would be trans-
ferred to the price scale to determine the number of price units repre-
sented. This process will be further described in section six in connection
with trading cycle selection.

© In figure 4-6 the two-finger technique is being used to trace FLD’s in
past time. This procedure will be further described in section seven which
covers the use of past time FLD objectives in the transaction decision-
making process.

  

 

© The two-finger technique is easily learned but does require some practice
in holding the fingers at a constant spacing. Once acquired, this skill
will be found indispensable in a whole series of rapid information extrac-
tion modes.

    

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Pa

paarasoy uaa IV
-auy ‘sang S19pHA], E16 @ WAKAO


DAILY.

WEEK ENDING: 22 BEC 197;

 

 

ASU

FWOFINGER ME:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“itp 380" tao"

  

eb

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

ez

22 DEC 197;

 

WEEK ENDING:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MENT,

TWO-FINGER MEASURI

 

FIGURE <3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

€ € €

 

HM WEEK ENDING: 22 DEC 1972 DAILY VOL25.3

0.8
\s0.0
a8
20.0
ja
“0
ae
m0
8
8
2.0
208

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


€ € €

HM WEEK ENDING: 22 DEC 1972 DAILY VOL=5.3

 

 

 
 
 

FIGURE 45
‘TWO.FINGER MEASUREMENT, PRICE MOVES SPANS w0.8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ab 2b “ Bb 7b 8d 90 100 140 t30 130 140 160 160 140 180 ido 20

ti | il... LLL

JUTTAT ata su MULT

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


   

ado ido 48” io ~ia0~ edo

fi

feb tetrtetett
80-85 90 95

IS
8

 

 

 


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

i Hh er
THE TRADING CYCLE CONCEPT

© Once a current cyclic model is available, it is theoretically possible to es-
timate the future trend underlying each wave in the model. Practically,
however, it is not necessary to do this.

© There is always one particular wave in a cyclic model which has special
meaning in relation to a potential transaction. This wave is called the
trading cycle, and it is most important to identify this wave and to esti-
mate the future trend underlying it.

@ The trading cycle is the longest wave in the composite wave that is de-
pended upon to move prices from the transaction entry value to the price
objective. The trend underlying the trading cycle is then the sum of all
longer waves in total price movement, and this trend either aids or oppos-
es the price move required to meet the objective.

© In most cases a.minimum acceptable gross price-move percentage must be
set before the trading cycle can be defined. This can be any value consis-
tent with investment goals but should not be less than 20 per cent.

 

© The process of selecting the trading cycle varies slightly depending upon
the state of the cyclic analysis at the time a selection is made.

©@ Ifa trading cycle is to be selected prior to a phasing analysis, two-finger
techniques are used to identify several key waves and their troughs.

© Then two-finger techniques are used to estimate the percentage price
moves associated with candidate trading cycles until one is found that
provides the required minimum gross price-move percentage. For any
gross price-move percentage within reason, the Principle of Proportion-
ality assures us that if a given wave will not fulfill the requirements, a
longer one can be found that will.

© If a phasing analysis is available, the process of selecting the trading cycle
proceeds as before except that two-finger identification of wave compon-
ents and their troughs is not needed.

© If a price objective has been set, the procedure is slightly different; the
minimum gross price-move percentage criterion has already been ap-
plied. In this case, information from the phasing analysis and current cyc-
lic model and the wave characteristics used to establish the price objectives

 

Page 22mm

  


     

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

2 etl

THE TRADING CYCLE CONCEPT continued
are employed to determine the longest wave responsible for producing the
predicted price move. This longest wave is then accepted as the trading
cycle.

 

 

© Once a trading cycle has been selected, the following policies take effec

1. A shift to a longer trading cycle should not be made during the
course of any one transaction.

2. The future course of the trend underlying the trading cycle should be
used as an aid in assessing transaction risk.

3. The trading cycle is used as the basis for setting the stop-loss level.

4. If there is evidence that the price low or high associated with the
trading cycle trough or crest that was to produce the price objective
has passed without the price objective having been met, transaction
termination procedures should be initiated immediately.

   

© Figure 4-8 (in section nine) is a daily chart of Homestake mining as of
22 December 1972. Use this figure to practice the two-finger techniques
for determining a trading cycle in the absence of a phasing analysis as
follows:

1. Identify a wave component having a period greater than 20 days and
less than 40 days. Form an estimate of the wave period and of the
trough locations.

Form an estimate of the average percentage price move associated
with the composite wave of which the wave identified in item one is
the longest wave present.

3. Ascertain whether this average percentage price move exceeds 20%
or not for:

a. Trend-supported price moves
b. Trend-opposed price moves.

Complete this exercise to the best of your ability before consulting the
discussion that follows.

Page 23

 

 

©

Pansasoy siq3ry IV

“Buy ‘ssa S1OPEAL E6T @ INBLAKdOD,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

tn

   

THE TRADING CYCLE CONCEPT continued

© In this exercise, four samples of the desired wave are present, defined by
five troughs located as follows:

1.

Between grid lines 24 and 28

2. At grid line 56
3

4, Between grid lines 115 and 122
5.

At grid line 84

At grid line 147.

© Your two-finger analysis should have resulted in a period estimate some-
where between 27 and 33 days.

@ Each of these wave samples exhibits successively lower price lows. This
implies that the trend underlying the 30-day wave was down over this
entire span of time. Thus, in each case price movements upward are in op-
position to trend while price movements downward are assisted by trend.

© In using the two-finger technique to measure four composite wave up
movements and four down movements, you probably concluded that the
downtrend does affect the movements. You should have arrived at average
price moves of about 3.5 to 4.0 units for the down moves and about 2.5 to
3.0 units for the up moves at an average price of about 25.5. The resulting
average price-move percentages would then be:

1

(down) 35100 — 13,7%, 40100 — 15.7%

355 “BS
2 (up 232200 9.90, 39-5100 — 11.7%,

© Compare the foregoing results with the following exact measurements,
which take many times longer to make:

1. Average period: 30.25 days

2. Average down move: 14.4%

3. Average up move: 11.5%

 

Page 24—


 
 

ESSON

y.

 

 

  

Arete
’ e p
PT ULE

 

CYCLITEC )
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

THE TRADING CYCLE CONCEPT continued
4, Overall average move: 13.0%

© The average percentage move estimates do not meet or exceed the 20%
minimum for the exercise, even for the cases where trend supports the
move. We therefore conclude that a longer wave would be required as a
trading cycle for this situation.

© The effectiveness of the two-finger technique is indicated by the exercise
results as compared with the exact measurements. Furthermore, the two-
finger results for this example are obtainable in under 30 seconds!

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

paauassy s1y3Ny TY

“uy ‘ssaag Su9PEL] ELET @ IYBUKdO

Pp 5


Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

CYCLITEG —
SERVICES | | II Il
TRAINING é
COURSEO il

 

USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS
© FLD’s in past time are used for several purposes:

1. To help locate wave troughs in price movement during a phasing an-
alysis (as described in lesson number three, section seven)

2. To determine whether past FLD price objectives exist which can in-
fluence future transaction decisions

3. To provide evidence of trend direction that may influence future
transaction decisions.

© Past time FLD's used for such purposes are constructed according to
slightly different rules than are future time FLD’s. These differences are
due to a lessened need for accuracy. Construction and usage are as fol-
lows:

1, When possible, FLD numbers are based on the best estimate from
the current cyclic model.

2. In computing the FLD number, the one is dropped. That is, the
FLD number is simply the wave period divided by two.

3. The FLD number is not rounded to a whole number.

4. A length of time equal to the FLD number is laid out on a measur-
ing strip.

5. This strip is moved horizontally in past time with the left-hand mark
passing generally through the price average marks. Then the path of
the right-hand mark on the strip traces out where the FLD would
normally be drawn if we were working in future time.

6. The two-finger technique described in section five may be used in
place of the measuring strip method whenever appropriate.

7. The FLD is not drawn on the chart. Instead its path is simply ob-
served until price intersection occurs, Then the time and price at the
intersection are marked on the chart.

8. In this way, FLD location of past wave troughs and crests can be
swiftly accomplished, and past time FLD price objectives can be
noted.

pe 4


         

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

LESSON

-

  

fh

USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS continued

9, Extreme accuracy is not necessary in such a search, so small oscilla-
tory price movements can be ignored.

  

© FLD price objectives in past time are classified as either retired or out-
standing. A classification of retired means that the objective in question is
unlikely to influence future price moves. A classification of outstanding
means that the objective in question may still influence future price
moves.

  

© FLD price objectives in past time are retired when evidence is obtained
that the price high or low associated with the wave crest or trough that
was to drive prices to the objective has been passed. Such evidence is ob-
tained in one or more of three ways:

1. The FLD that produced the price objective is subsequently broken
by prices in the opposite direction. This evidence is strengthened if the
break occurs during the time period when it would normally be expee-
ted if the crest or trough in question has indeed been passed.

2. A valid trend line based on the wave just shorter than the wave on
which the price-projecting FLD is based is broken in such a way as to
indicate that the wave crest or trough in question has been passed.

If trend is very strong, a full cycle of the wave on which the FLD is
based may pass without a VTL or FLD break occurring. When such

a full cycle has taken place and is confirmed by the phasing analysis,

the evidence is considered sufficient to retire the FLD price objective

in question. This evidence is strengthened if prices then proceeded to
form a higher high or a lower low than the price assumed to be associ-
ated with the wave crest or trough that was to drive prices to the FLD
price objective in question.

 

(If the strong trend is aiding the move, it is quite likely that the ob-
jective will have been met or exceeded.)

© All past time FLD price objectives that cannot be retired by any of these
three criteria must be considered as outstanding at present time.

© The impact of all outstanding FLD price objectives on future price

Pe 20

 

 

 

poasssay S148 I

“omy ssaag ss9pesy E161 @ 1UBUKdO:

VY


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,
Al Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS continued

movement is noted and made a part of the analysis involved in setting up the
transaction.

@ At the same time that past time FLD price objectives are categorized as
retired or outstanding, useful trend information can be obtained.

dual FLD

 

© This is due to the fact that trend affects the accuracy of indi
price projections. The applicable rules are:

1, Ifthe trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is based is flat,
then an FLD objective is likely to be rather exactly met by price.

2. Ifthe trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is based opposes
the price move projected by the FLD, the price move is likely to fall
short of the FLD objective.

3. If the trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is based favors
the price move projected by the FLD, the price move is likely to over-
shoot the FLD objective.

© These rules can be inverted and used to extract trend information from
past time FLD projections in the following manner.

© First, determine all past FLD price objectives for the wave of interest over
the past time interval of interest. Then note whether or not actual price
movement undershot, met, or overshot the objectives. Draw the appropri-
ate conclusion about the direction of the trend underlying the wave of inter-
est using the rules just given. Compare the conclusion with estimates for
this trend direction derived in other ways.

  

© Trend direction information obtained in this manner is made a part of the
analysis involved in setting up a transaction. It is very useful for resolving
ambiguities in a phasing analysis, estimating EL, and detecting evidence
of trend reversals not discernable in other ways.

 

 

@ Use figure 4-7 in section nine, a weekly chart of Homestake Mining (HM)
as of 22 December 1972, for the following exercise in using two-finger
techniques to extract information from past FLD’s:

1, Use two-finger methods to form a quick estimate, confirmed by the

—.——$S— pe


  

re

4

  

tt

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  
 
 

   

  

  

USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS continued

Periodogram, of the period of the wave corresponding to the 18-month
wave of the nominal model.

2. Use this period estimate and two-finger techniques to locate all of the
troughs of this wave shown in figure 4-7.

3. Use two-finger techniques to determine all of the FLD price objectives
in the past based on this wave.

4, Determine which of these objectives are outstanding and which are
retired as of the date of the chart.

5, Estimate the current and near future direction of trend underlying
this wave from past FLD price projection evidence.

‘Accomplish the whole of this exercise to the best of your ability before
referring to the following discussion.

© The estimate of wave period would be accomplished by first assuming an
initial cyclic model estimate of 80 weeks in order to obtain a starting FLD
number. Dividing by two produces 40 weeks as the FLD number.

Forty weeks is picked up off the time scale using two-fingers. The left finger
is used to trace (roughly) through price averages starting at the left of the
chart. The path of the right finger is observed as a tracing of this FLD.

‘An upside break by price is noted between grid lines 50 and 60. This implies
that the price lows between grid lines 20 and 35 are associated with a trough
of this wave.

© Continuing to trace this FLD the next break is a downside one between
grid lines 110 and 120. The implication here is that the price high at grid
Tine 94 is associated with a crest of this wave.

© Next an upside break occurs between 140 and 150 indicating that the price
ows between 120 and 130 are associated with a trough.

© Now you are in a position to measure (with two-fingers) between the price
ows indicated to be associated with 18-month wave troughs. This period
sample comes out to be about 100 weeks. A quick glance at the Periodo-
gram shows a peak for the nominal 9-month wave at 51 weeks. Twice this

086 29 $<

 

_ paaaeey san TY
‘Duy “Sso4g SIAPHAL E61 @ SUA


, 4s, In.
Copyright © 1973 Traders Press,
OPYETAII Rights Reserved

      

22
SERVICES ||| || AL
COURSES hi nr

 

USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS continued

would be 102 weeks, which compares well with the estimate of 100 weeks
just formed. The conclusion is that the 18-month wave (and probably all
others as well) are running long in this stock at this time and that a reason-
able period estimate is 100 weeks.

 

1is whole process can be accomplished in about 15 seconds!

© The first two items of the exercise are now complete. To accomplish items 3
and 4, you should now use an FLD number of one-half of 100, or 50.

@ The upward price break following the wave trough near grid lines 20 to 35
calls for a price projection upward that was nearly exactly met. This evi-

dence indicates the trend underlying the 18-month wave was flat at that
time.

© The downward break following the price high at 94 produces an objective
that prices undershot slightly. This indicates the trend underlying the 18-
month wave was turning slightly up at that time.

@ The final upward break following the trough between 120 and 130 gives a
projection to a price of about 34. This is the only outstanding 18-month

FLD objective on this chart, all of the others having been retired by FLD
breaks.

© Now for item number five of the exercise.

 

If prices reach 34 at the crest of this 18-month cycle, this will represent a
considerably higher high than the previous crest’s price high at grid line

94. Couple this with the fact that the two troughs shown also exhibit succes-
sively higher lows, and the evidence is quite firm that the trend underlying

the 18-month wave is up at current time. Notice that this conclusion defines
the direction of ZL for this stock.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

pe


 

‘AU Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

    
  
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
    

 
 

it

D

  
 

UT Tr
re ATF ce |
RAPID INFORMATION EXTRACTION METHODS

© A complete cyclic analysis can require up to one or one-and-one half hours
and should always be accomplished before entry into a transaction.

 

© Itis generally impractical to do a complete cyclic analysis each time infor-
mation is desired on an equity. This is true for two reasons:

1. A number of equities must be kept under analysis at all times in order
to provide enough transaction opportunities to keep funds working.

 

2. Analyses must be redone on a regular basis for each equity followed
so that estimates of wave status can be revised and improved on the
basis of new price events and updated analysis aids such as the
Periodogram.

© For these reasons it is desirable to have methods available for extracting a
large part of the wave information needed in each situation in a less exact,
but much more rapid manner.

© Such methods are generally called rapid scan techniques, and there are two
distinct versions available:

1. Very rapid scan, spoken of as VRS analysis, requires on the order of S
minutes to complete and is most often used for selecting from a group
of equities those on which additional effort is warranted.

2. Rapid scan, spoken of as RS analysis, requires on the order of 20
minutes to complete and is used to identify those equities in which a
potential transaction is near at hand.

@ The process referred to so far as complete cyclic analysis is often abbrevi-
ated to CCA. CCA is most useful for two purposes:

1. Gaining the experience and expertise needed to permit extraction of
a maximum of information from RS and VRS.

2. A final evaluation in the process of setting up a transaction, to be
completed prior to transaction entry.

© Expertise in cyclic analysis is gained in much the same way as in activities
requiring complex muscular coordination. Formal, step-by-step procedures
are learned and practiced until they become instinctive, At some point the

 

Page 3mm


   

  

CYCLITEC )
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
 

 
 

 
 

atten

 

2

3

2

Fe

RAPID INFORMATION EXTRACTION METHODS continued zz
whole process “clicks”, and wave status insight becomes available with ze
ever decreasing expenditure of time and effort. i :

© Through consistent practice in CCA, more and more effective results are as
obtained from RS and VRS. 3

@ VRS procedures are summarized as follows: F

1. Two-finger measurements are taken from low to low and high to high
of the Dominancy Envelope centerline fluctuations.

2. This rough measurement is transferred to the chart time scale, and
the approximate pre-dominant wave period is read from the scale.

3. This period estimate is checked for reasonableness by mental compar-
ison with the nominal cyclic model and by a glance at the Period-
ogram. )

4. Then this same measurement is employed as the FLD number for the
wave next longer than the pre-dominant wave.

5. Using two fingers instead of a measuring strip, the past time and
future time FLD’s for this wave are traced on the chart.

6. NoFLD marks are made on the chart except for a very rough indi-
cation of the FLD track in future time.

7. As past time breaks are noted, the associated troughs and crests are
marked, rough price projections are made (still using two fingers),
and the outstanding price objectives determined.

8. This process is repeated for the pre-dominant wave using an FLD
number of one-half the period estimate.

9. By the time these two passes are complete, the wave structure becomes
quite evident, and key VTL’s can be quickly sketched in place.

10. Potential pause zones and FLD cascades are noted, as well as situa-
tions where outstanding FLD objectives imply potential VTL breaks.

11. The analysis results are examined for implications of a possible fu-
ture transaction. This leads to one of two possible conclusions: The

Page 3:


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Tenders Press, Inc.

CYCLITEG
zeniige | HT

COURSEO

RAPID INFORMATION EXTRACTION METHODS continued

equity should be laid aside for the time being or should be scheduled
for more extensive analyses by RS or CCA.

@ RS procedures are summarized as follows:

1.
2

An initial cyclic model is prepared as for a CCA.

The initial cyclic model is used as a guide to perform a very trun-
cated phasing analysis. A phasing entry is effected via the Dominancy
Envelope centerline fluctuations, and two-finger, past-time FLD's are
used to locate key wave troughs.

Only the very most obvious and important wave troughs are located,
and no attempt is made to fill phasing gaps. The objective is to identi-
fy several clear-cut period samples for each wave.

|. Wave period samples are not averaged numerically. Instead, sample

Iengths are built up on a measuring strip which is compared to the
chart time scale. An estimate is formed of the period average by visual
inspection of the cluster of right-hand marks on the measuring strip.

|. These estimated period averages are then used as the basis for FLD

numbers.

Past-time FLD breaks are noted using a measuring strip, and the
associated wave troughs, crests, and price objectives marked. A deter-
mination is made of the price objectives still outstanding and of their
future price-change implications.

Future time FLD’s are sketched in place using the measuring strip
and ignoring price fluctuations due to significantly shorter waves. The
resulting FLD pattern is analyzed for potential cascades, pause zones,
price reversals, etc.

The diamonds of the abbreviated phasing analysis are used as a guide
for placement of key VTL's which are sketched into place. Potential
FLD-VTL interrelationships are noted (that is, situations in which

an FLD break may imply the break of an important VTL, or vice
versa).

‘The appropriate trading cycle is selected, and rough potential-risk

He

 

SS 8


  

LESSON

4

  

ERE
PO O ey
PETE

  
     

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

w
ft

RAPID INFORMATION EXTRACTION METHODS continued

ratios and gross percentage profit potentials computed. Meaningful
action signals are noted, and the logical stop-loss level is selected.

9, An assessment of the transaction risk is made and compared with
that of other potential transaction candidates. A decision is made as
to whether or not the prospects warrant a CCA.

 

@ Even the first time through, it is usually surprising how firm a grasp is ob-
tained of the wave situation using VRS and RS techniques. A skilled an-
alyst using RS methods can reach the necessary transaction decisions in
most cases even without conducting a CCA.

However, it is good practice and good insurance to conduct a CCA prior
to entry of each transaction.

@ The more CCA experience an analyst has, the more information he will be
able to obtain using rapid scan techniques, and the more nearly exact the
information will be.

@ These techniques will be illustrated in the workshops to follow, which will
take the place of exercises for this section.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Pope 34

pouosy mA TV
“aur ‘sag ss9pe4] E61 @ I4REAKAO)


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

en 4
TRAINING TTT LL

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE

© Most of the rest of this lesson will be devoted to learning-by-doing. This
will be the first of the course workshops. In these workshops you will exper-
ience the whole range of cyclic analysis methods applied in a wide variety of
situations,

 

 

 

© This will be the pattern of all lessons to follow: First there will be a review
of material already presented. Then new methods and concepts will be dis-
cussed. And finally, the workshops will provide the opportunity for you to
see all the cyclic analysis methods in action, The self-examinations will be
broadened to cover not only the new material of a given lesson but to re-
fresh your memory and reinforce your retention of earlier concepts as well.

© The amount of good you receive from the course is going to depend greatly
on the way in which you handle the workshops sessions. A workshop unit
will be presented to you with instructions as to what you are to do. Study the
instructions carefully, then follow them to the best of your ability at the
time. Do not be discouraged if you find this difficult at first. Do the best you
can, and then study the discussion and the correct results shown in the
figures.

 

Learn from these discussions and correct results what you should have
done, and then proceed to the next workshop unit. As you continue in this
manner you will find that the understanding you need will grow until you
can accomplish the assigned workshop tasks with ease.

@ It’s the week before Christmas, 1972. You have just opened the Cyclitec
chart mailing of 22 December. You place the new charts in your binder and
file the displaced charts away for reference.

© Now you are ready to scan the equities in the Cyclitec stable searching for
upcoming potential transactions. The word scan is used to describe a rapid
search without detailed analysis of any one situation. And the word stable
refers to the 27 stocks or 15 commodities for which graphical cyclic anal-
ysis aids are provided by Cyclitec at any one time,

© Itis clear that the rapid information extraction methods described in sec-
tion eight are ideally suited for scanning, especially the VRS approach.

© As you go through the stable applying VRS to each equity, most of the
results will be negative at any given time. That is, VRS results will indicate

 

Page Sm


 

Page 36

  
  

 

) CYCLITEC

SERVICES
|| TRAINING
| COURSEO

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued

that no potential low risk transaction is likely in the near future. But when
such a transaction is approaching, the VRS analysis will alert you to it. This
is what you re looking for!

 

@ Let's assume that on this particular weekend your sean has reached HM
(Homestake Mining Company, a gold stock). Figures 4-7 and 4-8 are the
weekly and daily Cyclitec HM charts you would have had on your desk
Let's see how the VRS analysis would have gone.

@ As the first unit in this workshop, conduct a VRS analysis on HM. Normal-
ly you would not necessarily record your results and conclusions, but
would simply retain them in your mind. However, for this exercise do write
down your results and conclusions as you go along. If necessary, return to
section eight and follow step by step the procedures outlined for VRS. Go as
far as you can by yourself before referring to the discussion that follows!

© You should have started your VRS analysis on the weekly chart.

© On this chart you first observe the oscillations of the Dominancy Envelope

centerline to gain information about the pre-dominant wave. You note a
distinct low at grid line 28, an attempt at a low at 70 to 72, and another
distinct low at 127. The oscillation highs occur at 92 and 157.

@ You do not note these positions by grid line; this takes time. Instead, you

measure (roughly) between the successive lows and highs with two fingers
(of either hand). As you do this, you adjust finger spacing slightly so that
a crude average of the pre-dominant wave period is obtained.

© Next you hold the fingers rigid while dropping them to the chart time scale

for a pre-dominant wave period reading. In this case you observe that your
fingers are spread about 50 weeks apart.

@ You recognize that this is most likely the manifestation at this time, for this

stock, of the 9-month wave of the nominal cyclic model. You make a mental
note that wave periods may be running long in this situation. Further, you
glance at the Periodogram and notice a very decisive peak in the region of a
50-week period, thus confirming the validity of your two-finger measure-
ments.

© Now without changing your finger positions (still holding them spread

 

poussay SURV

-buy 504g S19PEAL EL6T O WALEAOD


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

scenes
TRAINING || >
COURSEO LI)! i

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued
about 50 weeks apart), you use this measure as an estimated FLD number
for the next longer wave — in this case the nominal 18-month wave, Using
your fingers as a measure, you trace a past time FLD across the chart.
Since this is such a long wave you elect to start this tracing from the extreme
left side of the chart. As you make this pass with your hand (and without
making any marks on the chart), you note the following information items
in quick succession:

1

. An upward break between grid lines 50 and 60 places a trough of the

nominal 18-month wave between 20 and 35. It also produces a price
objective for the crest that was neither undershot nor overshot signif-
icantly, indicating a flat trend underlying the 18-month wave at that
time.

A downward break between 110 and 120 indicates that the price high
at 94 is to be associated with an 18-month crest. It also indicates a
downward price objective that was slightly undershot, indicating a
slight uptrend underlying the 18-month wave at this time.

An upward break between 140 and 150 implies another 18-month
trough between 120 and 130, And you also note that the price associ-
ated with this trough is higher than the price associated with the last
18-month trough — confirming the previous indication that the 18-
month wave's underlying trend, which is ZL, has turned up. The
upward prce objective projected by this FLD break has not been met
as yet, but it should be met before this cycle is over if the trend under-
lying the 18-month wave is indeed up as you suspect it to be.

This projection is for prices to reach about 34 sometime in the course
of the current 18-month wave cycle. The time translation effect (which
could be either to the right or left, depending on underlying trend)
could result in this objective being reached at the price high associated
with either the first or the second nominal 9-month wave crest within
the 18-month cycle.

The direction of this FLD is up at current time and in the near future,
This implies that the wave on which the FLD is based (the nominal
18-month wave) will be acting to depress prices in the near future.
Since just about the right amount of time has passed since the last

Page 37.

 


eT

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued
18-month trough for completion of the first nominal 9-month wave cycle

(50 weeks in this case), the 18-month wave should be topping out right
about now and should be going down in the near future. All of this
crosschecks perfectly. If the trend underlying the 18-month wave is up
as suspected, then high translation would shift the 18-month price
high to the right of the 18-month wave crest. If this occurs as expec-
ted, the price high for the 18-month wave will probably be associated

with the crest of the second 9-month cycle, and the 18-month price
objective of about 34 could be met at that time.
‘To obtain this information should have taken you no more than 1S
to 20 seconds, and your mental summation would be:
This stock is nearing the first 9-month low in an 18-month cycle.
(Confirmed by the steady decline of prices over the past several

months.)
There is only one outstanding FLD price objective for the 18-month
wave, and this is for prices at about 34, probably to occur during the
second 9-month wave cycle (yet to come).
This objective will probably be met because the available evidence
indicates that 3 (the trend underlying the 18-month wave) is sup-
porting the projected price movement.

7. You then note that prices are presently at about 24-1/2. The 18-month
objective is about 34. This represents a gross potential percentage
profit of:

34-24-1/2 =95

9.5 x100 = 950

950 + 24-1/2 = 38.8%.

@ From this single, short VRS pass you conclude:

1. You certainly do not want to short the stock.
2. Arally from a 9-month nest-of-lows is probably near and will prob-
ably represent a significant buying opportunity.

3. This stock should be analyzed further.

a

 

cop ea PAP OM HBR Hy
Par S524d SU9PEAL E16T o 1yBUKdo


  
  
 

 

     

 

8 |
TRAINING TTT

      

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued
@ The next step of the VRS would consist of a similar pass on this same chart,
but this time based on the SO-week wave period estimate. Measure off 25

weeks from the chart time scale again using two fingers. Since this is a
shorter wave and right now you are interested in only the last cycle or two,
no particular good would come from starting at the extreme left of the
chart. A good general rule is to start in such a location that observation

of several breaks may be possible. In this case grid line 110 would be a reas-

onable place to start.
© This pass, again very quickly, produces the following information:

1. An upward break occurred between grid lines 130 and 140. This
implies that the 18-month low around 120 and 130 is also a 9-month
low, as it should be by Synchronicity. The upward price projection re-

¢ sulting from this break is very well met by the price highs between grid

lines 150 and 160.

. A downward break occurred between 165 and 175, confirming that
the price highs between 150 and 160 are associated with the 9-month
wave crest. The downward price projection resulting from this 9-
month FLD break is for a price objective at about 17 or 18, to be met
during the present 9-month wave cycle.

he direction of this 9-month FLD is topping out about now and de-

clining in the near future. This indicates that the 9-month wave

should be bottoming out about now and should then be tending to

drive prices up in the near future.

 

 

 

© Your mental summing up for this pass, which should have required another
15 to 20 seconds at most, is as follows:
1. Proximity of a 9-month nest-of-lows is confirmed by the pass.

2. A negative bit of evidence is at hand. This is the outstanding 9-month
FLD price projection to prices of 17 of 18 for the 9-month low.

Alll Rights Reserved

@ This last item is evidence against a low risk transaction soon. You must
look for any other available evidence that will reinforce or negate this indi-

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

cation,
© For this search you once again study the chart. You have already identified

Page 9

 


   

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  
 

       

te

WGRKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE cominued
price movement from about grid line 120 or 130 to the present as being
partly due co the completion of nearly a full cycle of the 9-month wave.
With the 18-month wave just now topping out (hence flat) and ¥L esti-
mated to be up, the trend underlying the 9-month wave should be up. This
would oppose the downward 9-month FLD price projection, so prices are
likely to fall short of the projection.

rrr

 

 

Further, it is time for a 9-month low. If this low has already been seen at
grid fine 175, it is certainly a higher low than the last 9-month low at grid
line 120 or 127. This fits in with the estimate that trend is up. It also fits

in with the outstanding 18-month upward price objective at 34, For if trend
is indeed up, then the resulting high translation could cause the high of the
second J-month cycle to meet the 18-month objective at 34,

‘© These considerations go a long way toward negating the 9-month downward
price projection of 17 to 18 but still more evidence would be desirable,

© You attempt another VRS pass to try to gain the needed evidence.

© For this pass, you assume that a 25-week wave exists (one-half of the pre-
dominant wave period of 50 weeks). Another glance at the Periodogram
strongly confirms this rough estimate.

@ The VRS FLD number is 12-1/2. Since this is just about the width of an
index finger, a single finger is used for this FLD pass. (A good starting
point is about grid line 145.) The following observations result:

1. A downward break occurs between grid lines 160 and 165 with a price
projection to about 23. This projection has been met by prices — even
overshot a little.

2, There is a reasonable chance that this FLD has been broken in the
upward direction by the price movement of the last month-and-a-half,
but the one finger technique is too rough tor you to be sure.

3. You go back and find that the previous upward break occurred be-
tween 145 and 150, thus identifying the low between 140 and 145 as a
25-week low. If this is so, then the next 25-week low is overdue now
and probably occurred at grid line 175. But since this would mark
the completion of the second 25-week wave in the 50-week cycle, it

86

poasasoy siqana IV
au] ‘Ssa4g SIOPHA, €L61 @ BLsKAO


Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  
  
 

      
 

  
 

     

22
ERAINING | TTT

   

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued
could not happen without 175 also marking a 9-month low. The evi
dence seems to be building up that the anticipated 9-month nest-of-
lows may have already taken place.

4. The downward 25-week price objective at 23 has already been well
met, and this low should occur simultaneously with the 9-month low
and therefore at the same price. Once again the disturbing 9-month
price objective at 17 or 18 would seem to be invalidated by other
evidence.

© At this point you discontinue VRS analysis. The conclusion after three FLD
passes (on the order of one minute of effort) is:

‘This stock should be analyzed in depth (CCA) for a potential 39 per
cent price rally in the near future.

You would not even extend the VRS to the daily chart in this case since the
desired scanning conclusions are already very clear.

© Study the discussion of this VRS analysis carefully and compare the ap-
proach described, methods used, and logic presented with your own efforts
until you feel you could repeat the process yourself in a new situation.
When you have finished,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Ss


 

 

 

 


 

 

| ill.

                               

 


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 
        

Wh
ul

© The VRS analysis results of section nine indicated the desirability of more
extensive analysis for HM. You could elect to do an RS or a CCA at this
point.

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO

© Since RS will be demonstrated in another workshop and since one of the
purposes of this lesson is to provide additional experience in phasing anal-
ysis, we will choose to go CCA.

© Therefore, as workshop unit number two, construct the weekly portion of
the current cyclic model for HM using the transaction analysis form of fig-
ure 4-9, Do the entire task as well as you can before consulting the follow-
ing discussion.

‘The analysis starts with the construction of an initial cyclic model for the
weekly chart:

    

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (WEEKLY)
PERIODOGRAM COMMENTS.

  
    
 
 
   
  

 

NOMINAL

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

19M(7@_ W

70 W 51 W| Waeku than moma?
ao W 23 W

vo WT vy wh

 

©@ As a general note, you observe that, as previously indicated by the VRS
analysis, all waves appear to be running considerably longer than nominal
for HM at this time.

@ Next you recall from the VRS analysis that the nominal 18-month wave had
troughs indicated between grid lines 20 and 35 and again between 120 and
130. Thus, the VRS analysis has provided a phasing entry. In each of these
cases, the double price lows preclude positive trough identification; so pos-
sibles must be shown at 23 and 32, then again at 120 and 127 (see figure
4-10; the special symbols used in this figure will be explained in later par-
agraphs).

 

fn

 

Page 4


 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

 

  

ii

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued

© Your first step phasing extension places 40-51 week possibles at the same
locations. In the second step extension for this wave, you place a diamond
at 75, labeled 1. No further extensions are possible for this wave.

Aa

 

© In the first step extension for the 20-23 week wave, you place possibles at
23, 32, 56, 120, and 127, and a diamond at 75, labeled 2. Your second step ex-
tension locates a diamond at grid line 2, and possibles at 143, 145, and 148.
(The possible at 148 is placed in consideration of the strong likelihood of
ow translation to the left in this instance. Since we want to place our dia-
monds as near to the true locaton of the wave troughs as we can, we may
want to consider a price low farther to the right than 145 when it comes
time to resolve these possibles).

In second step extension to the right of these possibles, you place another
possible at 175. Then your second step extension to the left of the possibles
at 23 and 32 locates a diamond at grid line 2, labeled 4. In a third step ex-
tension to the left of the diamond at 75, you locate a possible at 56. No
further extensions are in order for this wave.

© In the first step extensions for the 10-14 week wave, you place diamonds at
2,75, and 101, labeled 5, 6, and 7 respectively. You also place possibles at
23, 32, 56, 120, 127, 143, 145, 148 and 175. Your step two extension results in a
pair of possibles at 157 and 162. Additional step two and step three efforts
do not produce any more in the way of results for this wave.

© You then make an attempt to phase the 5-7 week wave. The results of this
effort are not definitive because of the unusually large number of ambigu-
ities related to the longer waves and left for resolution until now.

© Here we have a case that is strikingly different than the copper example of
lesson three, The formal rules of phasing do not even allow for completion
of this HM analysis without at least one fully-phased short wave being avail-
able. This is typical of the specific situations that the analyst faces from
time to time for which complete coverage by rules is not practical.

© Incases such as this one, two choices are available:

1. The issue can be dropped from consideration until the situation clears
up (as it will in time).

Page 45

paasasoy swung TV

“uy ‘ssaug super ¢161 @ wsUAdO)


Copyright © 1973 Traders Pres, In.
bi ‘All Rights Reserved

  

22 (aE.
Taman || PTT TIMI

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued
2. We can draw upon knowledge of cyclic phenomena and see whether
enough information can be generated to complete the analysis.
In this workshop we will opt for choice number two,

© One approach would be to look for the shortest wave on which complete
phasing information is at hand, and to consider basing completion on this
wave.

© First it would be observed that the 18-month wave is fully phased, but the
ambiguous lows are bothersome in this case.

 

@ Then it would be noticed that the ambiguities do not prevent placement of a
possible 40-51 week trough at 175 (by Harmonicity, based on the possibles
at 143-148 and 175 for the next shorter wave). With this possible placed,
the 40-51 week wave is fully phased — but again the ambiguities at 23-32
and 120-127 deny us the wave period information needed, and the uncer-
tainty at 175 denies us the phase status information needed.

© Itis only when we come to review the 20-23 week wave information at hand
that a possible solution emerges. If the possible at 32 is chosen in prefer-
ence to the possible at 23, the variance for the period samples of this wave
is minimized. Similarly, the choice of the possible at 127 over the one at 120
results in very acceptable variance if the possible at 148 is selected in prefer-
ence to the one at 143 or the one at 145. To show this selection in figure
4-10, these possibles are enclosed in circles.

‘© By Synchronicity, the corresponding possibles for the 40-51 week wave are
selected and enclosed in triangles. By the same reasoning, choices are also
made for the 18-month possibles. These selections are enclosed in hex-
agons.

 

@ Now we have a reasonable phasing analysis for the weekly chart, But what
about its credibility? After all, a rather weak cyclic argument was used to
arrive at the conclusions involved.

© First of all let's examine the critical nest of possibles located at grid square
175. The last several possible trough location sets for the 10-14 week wave
do not need to be better defined in order to establish that either VTL 1 or

 

PORE Mm

  


CYCLITEC (

y | lt SERVICES
4 rT ITE TRAINING
COURSEO

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued
VTL 2is a valid downtrend line based on this wave. And it does not matter
which of the two VTL's is correct because they both have been broken by
prices in the upward direction. This establishes the 20-23 week possible at
175 as definite. Then by Synchronicity the 10-14 week possible at the same
location also becomes definite. This is indicated in figure 4-10 by the dia-
monds enclosing these possibles.

   

pasos swan HY

@ Next it is noted that Harmonicity now makes the 40-51 week possible at 175
definite regardless of the resolution of the 40-51 week possible set at 120-
127 and the 20-23 week possible sets at 120-127 and 143-145-148. This
possible is also enclosed with a diamond.

2
3.
=
a
g
Z
i
=
5

© This line of cyclic logic establishes phase status evidence for the 40-S1
week and all shorter waves that is quite credible.

© Next we'll examine the effect of errors in resolving the 18-month trough
location between the possibles at 120 and 127. Having established the high
probability of a 9-month trough at 175, we realize that any contemplated
near future transaction will take place while the 18-month wave is going
down regardless of how the possibles are resolved. So the estimated phase
status of this wave is independent of our choice regarding these possibles.

© Finally, we look at the impact of ambiguity resolution on period estimates.

For the 20-23 week wave, the only critical elements are the diamonds at 2
and 175. The number of samples used in the average is known, and there-
fore the period estimate is known and is completely independent of ambigu-
ity resolution at any of the locations between these two extreme diamonds.

© With this same reasoning plus the Principle of Harmonicity, we can use
one-half of the 20-23 week average period as the average period for the 10-
14 week wave and the result will be the same as if the phasing for the 10-14
week wave were fully completed.

© Doubling the 20-23 week period estimate provides a satisfactory 40-51 week
average period — again regardless of the 40-51 week trough ambiguity
resolutions affected.

© The 18-month FLD is not going to be critically in error no matter which

P66 —<—<—<—$—

 


  
 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

   

LOT
PRR A
WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued

period is used from the four that are provided by the two sets of possibles.
Further, doubling of the 40-51 week estimate is even more likely to produce
correct results than the use of a single wave-period sample, so these ambi-
guity resolutions are not necessary.

  

© Thus a chain of cyclic logic has been used to show that the incomplete
phasing analysis of figure 4-10 can be used with much the same degree of
confidence that the fully phased chart of copper provided. The resulting
weekly portion of the current cyclic model is as follows (with the 3 L direc-
tion as determined in the VRS analysis):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL
NOMINALT ACTUAL PHASE _JSTATUS[ FLD NUMBER
SL t WEEKS DAYS.
Tem7ew) | 9e.sw — 7 | 50.4
40W. 49.4W dw f A572 123.9
20W_ 34. 7W Hae t 13.3 27.4
80D [iayw5 96S] yw + HH.
© This has been your first encounter with a more difficult phasing analysis,

and it is to be expected that you experienced some difficulty in your at-
tempt. Therefore, you should study the discussion material throughly un-
til you see clearly how and why each decision was made. When you have
finished,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

ge


 

oF

Copyright © 1

All Rights Reserved

   

  

   

Seavitrsl O«t
FOR
ors Traders Presume, FOR

 

TRANSACTION ANALYSIS FORM

 

 

 

 

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (WEEKLY)

 

 

NOMINAL _

PERIODOGRAM

 

 

BL

 

Buy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

en wt
w w
—w w
__ wl |
Ww w - -
wi Ww _ | ~
TiTWaL GYELIG MODEL LOAILY) PAKSLI+S
PERIODOGRAM COMMENTS _| PReT
1 o — _ 100 x (S - BI
oO a % 8B
= o |
a %

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

SELL SITUATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

SELL sHoRT | PR | % GROS:

 

 

 

NOMINAL |

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL

ACTUAL, PHASE [STATUS] FLO NUMBER

 

 

SL
TaMi7e)

Lweexs

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

70

 

 

 

 

(PR x SLI

ss PRY)

 

 

 

 

 

100 x (5:

 

%

 

 

COMMENTS AND NOTES

 

 

 

 

si

 

 

FOR COMMODITIES

gq = 1004 (88 -ClxV

 

 

 

__ M.
. FOR COMMODITIES

 

 

 

 

FIGURE 4.9.

V 1s VALUE OF 14 MOVE
IM ISMARGIN REQUIRED

ALL PRICES EXPRESSED IN CENTS

 

 

 

 

Page 19


 

 

 

 


‘Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

TRAINING
COURSE©

Secures NA
eT

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE

© The next step of a CCA is to arrive at the daily portion of the current cyclic
model by means of an FPA and to combine this with the weekly version to
form a complete current cyclic model. Please do this now for HM as work-
shop unit number three. As you proceed, combine the entire phasing anal-
ysis on the daily chart. Use the HM daily chart of figure 4-8 and the trans-
action analysis form of figure 4-9, and complete the effort to the best of
your ability before consulting the following discussion,

© Once again your first step is to form the initial cyclic model shown in the
following table:

     

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (DAILY)

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PERIODOGRAM. COMMENTS
gD Vay Waok
sa D | Yay Lande
3a D Merona
14D Mermod
TZ) Tot Chana Cut

© You again note that the Periodogram is indicating that all waves acting
in HM at this time are considerably longer than nominal. You first observ-
ed this in the VRS analysis, then in the weekly initial cyclic model, then
in the weekly phasing analysis, and now in the daily initial cyclic model.
‘The conclusion is inescapable that all evidence points to acceptance of this
fact by now.

© You effect phasing entry via the oscillations in the Dominancy Envelope
centerline. You note a low at about grid line 40, and another at about 142 or
143. With a two-finger check of this pre-dominant wave period, you arrive at
an estimate of about 105 days. This checks well with twice fifty-two (the
next shorter wave indicated by the Periodogram) leading you to feel that,
with this observation added to all the other evidence favoring longer-than-
nominal waves for HM now, the weak 80-day Periodogram indication can
be ignored. So you conclude that the pre-dominant wave on the daily chart
is the equivalent of the nominal 80-day wave and is identical with the wave
indicated by the weekly analysis to be 12.4 weeks (or 86.5 days).

 

Poge St


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE continued
© Asa result of this entry, you place a phasing diamond at grid line 147 (and
you note that this is also where it would have been placed if transferred
from the weekly chart, which fact adds confirmation to the placement).

This diamond is shown as diamond number 1 in figure 4-11.

 

© You find two possible price lows in the vicinity of the centerline low near
40; one between 20 and 30, and one at 56. You could mark these as pos-
sibles, delaying resolution until later. But actually you would be fairly safe
in placing a diamond at 20 or 30 since there are four very visible cycles of
the 20-32 day wave between 147 and 20-30. However, since the exact loca-
tion between grid lines 20 and 30 is also in doubt, you decide to wait and
see if more evidence develops.

oasasay sims UY
DUT ssa4q SHOPEAL EL6I @ IUBLLKdOD

© In the first step extension for the 40-52 day wave, you place a diamond at
147 (number 2 in figure 4-11). No second step extension is possible. Your @
third step extension to the left of 147 locates a diamond at 84. Continuing
the third step extension to the left, you place a pair of possibles at 24 and

28.

© Your first step extension for the 20-32 day wave places diamonds at 84 and
147, and a pair of possibles at 24 and 28. In a second step extension, you
locate diamond number 6 at 56 and a pair of possibles at 115 and 122.
(Note: Minimization of period sample variance would cause the possible
at 115 to be favored over the one at 122). No third or fourth step extensions

are possible for this wave.

© In the first step extension for the 10-14 day wave, you place diamonds 7, 8,
and 9 at 56, 84, and 147. Also, you place pairs of possibles at 24-28 and 115-
122. Your second step extension locates diamonds at 43 and 72. Your third
step extension to the right of 147 locates a diamond number 12 at 162 (fav-
ored over the possible at 158 in order to minimize period sample variance).
No additional step three or four extensions are possible for this wave.

© You could stop the phasing analysis at this point, but an attempt to phase
the 5-7 day wave (one-half of 10-14 days) could resolve some of the ambigu-

ities, and so it is worth a try.

© In the first step extension for the 5-7 day wave you place diamonds 13

S08 2


Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CYCLITEC

SERVICES ||| (JJ) | u Le
TRAINING || 11TH i Hr r |
GOURSEO

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE continued

through 18 at grid lines 43, 56, 72, 84, 147, and 162. Also, you place pairs
of possibles at 24-28 and 115-122. Your second step extension results in
diamonds at 49, 65, 77, and 154. In successive third step extensions to the
right of 84, you place diamonds 23, 24 and 25 at grid lines 93, 99, 107; you
place unnumbered diamonds around the possibles at 115 and 122; and you
place diamonds 26 and 27 at grid lines 130 and 137. In additional third
step search to the right of 162, you locate the diamond at 170. And search-
ing to the left of 43, you place diamonds at 35, 28, 24, 15, 10, and 6.

 

© At this point the requirements have been met for you to begin completion;
full phasing for a short wave is in existence. You now start immediately to
fill the harmonic gaps for successively longer waves.

© Working up from the 5-7 day wave to the 10-14 day one, you first resolve
the ambiguity between the possibles at 115 and 122. The situation resolves
in favor of 115 as previously suspected. This possible is shown enclosed
with a diamond in figure 4-11.

© Next, Harmonicity allows you to locate 10-14 day troughs at 99 and 130
(marked by diamonds numbered 33 and 34 in figure 4-11).

© You then resolve the possibles at 24 and 28 in favor of 28.

© Finally, using Harmonicity, you locate diamonds at 15 and 4 to complete
the phasing for this wave.

© Now you progress to filling the harmonic gaps for the 20-32 day wave. You
resolve the ambiguity at 115 and 122 in favor of 115, and you resolve the
ambiguity at 24 and 28 in favor of 28. Finally, by Harmonicity you locate
diamond number 34 at grid line 4 to complete the phasing for this wave.

 

© Now, moving to the 40-52 day wave, you resolve the ambiguity at 24-28 in
favor of 28,

© This provides the rationale for you to locate an 80-day diamond at 28.

© Now you transfer the two diamonds from the weekly chart that can be loca-
ted on the daily one. These are the 24.7-week and 49.4-week diamonds from

Page Sime

 


  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

 

 

er | i] ] ]

 

 

‘
3
WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE continued 28
grid line 175 which you transfer to grid line 147 on the daily chart (by Har- & §
monicity and Synchronicity). Be
z
@ You obtain additional evidence to support the diamonds at 147 by drawing i
in the valid trend lines for the 5-7 day, 20-32 day, and 40-52 day waves. You a
note that these have all been broken in the upward direction and that this g
confirms the diamonds at 147 for the 10-14 day, 40-52 day, and 80-day =
waves. (Of course, once the 80-day wave is confirmed, then all shorter waves e
are also confirmed by Synchronicity.) And these confirmations give in-
creased credibility to the 24.7-week and 49.4-week diamonds because of
Synchronicity and Harmonic
© The period averages are now computed as follows:
1. 5-7 day wave @
Extreme diamond locations are: 4and 170
Time between extreme diamonds is: 170 - 4 = 166 days
Number of period samples is: 2B
Average period is: 166 + 23 = 7.2 days.
2. Because of the perfect harmonicity of the phasing analysis, the best
estimate of all of the longer waves is obtained as follows:
10-14 day wave
2x72 = 14.4 days
20-32 day wave
2x 14.4 = 28.8 days
40-52 day wave
2x28.8 = S7.6 days
80-day wave
2.x 57.6 = 115.2 days.
© Now you must decide whether to use the 115.2-day estimate from the daily
©

PE


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE continued
chart or the 12.4-week (86.5-day) estimate from the weekly chart for the
nominal 80-day (10-week) wave. For a stock, there is no basic reason why
the weekly estimate should not be used (as there is in the case of commodi-
ties). In fact, in some instances it is desirable to use the weekly estimate
because of the larger number of samples available. However, in this case
the very large variation of best period estimates from nominal would cause

you some con
chart. In ad

 

 

Mii

 

1 that this effect might be averaged out on the weekly
ition, the weekly chart presented enough phasing problems to

make the weekly period estimate for a wave this short somewhat suspect.
On the basis of these considerations, you decide that in this case you will
use the estimate from the daily phasing analysis.

 

© This decision leaves you in a position to complete the current cyclic model
which then appears as follows:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL
NOMINAL] ACTUAL PHASE STATUS, FLD NUMBER,
SL f WEEKS DAYS.
TeM(7EW) | 99. 8w oT 504
9M(39W) HIAW How t 25.7 173.9
20W B4.2W ExT t 13.3, 374
‘80D 113.20 320 } 526
40D $2.60 3ap | =~ 292
20D 2220 3ad — 15.4
i} 44D 170 [| _* 22
5D 220 qo — 4

 

 

@ You now lay out the locations of projected lows (in the manner described in
section thirteen of lesson three) for those waves for which there is enough
room on the chart.

© This completes the discussion of workshop unit number three. Once again
you should compare the discussion points with your own efforts in detail
to be sure you understand each decision. Remember also that two phasing
analyses of the same chart prepared by different analysts are unlikely to be

 

  

  

4

 

Page $5


   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

   

ESSON a Hh

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE continued
exactly alike. However, the differences should not be so great as to result in
different transaction decisions. If your analysis does not compare exactly

 

     

i
with the one shown, first determine whether the difference would have had

a significant effect on the resulting transaction decisions. If so, then the dis.
cussion material should be restudied. When you have finished this evalu-

ation,
PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Page 56

poasosoy swung TV

“buy ‘ssang S19pHL E761 @ MIBLKdO


 

€ € €

 

 

 

   
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HM WEEK ENDING: 22 DEC 1972 DAILY VOLZ5.3
FIGURE 4.11
DAILY FPA FOR HM aa
cyoecit sjae.0
TORENT CYCLIC MODEL
+ ROR ASA | Pease aT] is omer] a8
__[ommees [pave
eT as ane
SRaOW) #7 wee Y e7 [ae
ow | 247 Fe as we
0 _ SID— | sas] + [age] san
a0_| #720} sao {AS aa},
700_| 2082 | “sao a
“0 4B 58 pa] ie
30 | “920 yaa we

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_Soododn

date

  

 

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC 850K
SERVICES

TRAINING Hh
COURSEO

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FOUR
© Now it is time for you to pause and extract as much information as possible
from the phasing analysis and current cyclic model.

 

  

© First of all, take a look at the overall situation. For a number of months,
Prices on the weekly chart have been plunging (in fact, by a total of some
30%).

© If it were not for cyclic theory, you would have no way of knowing that the
small up-move in price over the last month is any more significant than
similar rallies that occurred all through the price decline.

© But you have a very distinct impression from the analysis to date that this is
a significant rally and that itis in fact the start of a major price reversal
which may carry prices up to the region of 34 or even beyond. Such a price
move would result in higher prices than have been seen in this issue for at
least the last 41 months!

 

@ From a wave viewpoint you strongly suspect that you've already seen the
nine-month low and that prices are in the process of completing the first
28.8-day cycle to follow. If this is so, you can expect high translation (to the
right) in the composite price wave consisting of the 28.8-day and all shorter
waves. Looking at the daily chart, you see that this high translation is
indeed occurring.

 

© Also, you saw from your phasing analysis that the valid downtrend lines
based on the 7.2-day, 28.8-day, and 57.6-day waves have all been broken in
the upward direction. This tells you that the 115.2-day (nominal 80-day)
wave and all shorter waves have formed their troughs at grid line 147.

@ Allof these considerations lead you to feel that the prospects for a success-
ful buy in HM are very good. This conviction can be further confirmed by
yet another line of reasoning. Suppose that you were conducting this
analysis of HM as of five weeks earlier. You would still have come to the
conclusion that a nine-month nest-of-lows was due very soon, As a matter
of fact you now believe that the price low associated with this nest occured
the very next Monday. Under those circumstances you could have set up a
transaction and selected an action signal. But in doing so, you would have
been fully aware that the resulting transaction carried a higher risk than
one for which more time had passed so that more definitive evidence could

 

Page 54,


  

  

Page 5M

 

     
 

A cyoures
Pa eh rte | eesinne’

  

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FOUR coninued
be obtained that the nest-of-lows expected really did come about. By the
same line of reasoning, on December 22 the transaction under consider-
ation must involve less risk of failure.

@ A glance at the phasing analysis shows you that prices as of 22 December
are probably at or very near another 7.2-day. And you expect a trough of the
14.4-day and 28.8-day wave to be coincident with this low. When this minor
nest-of-lows comes about, only the 57.6-day and 98.8-week waves will be
acting against a price rise—and both of these are just topping and not yet
hard down. Therefore, a buying opportunity is very near at hand, possibly
as near as the coming Monday.

 

@ You briefly consider the problem of an action signal. In this case, you want
to select an action signal that will indicate that the 7.2/14.4/28.8-day
nest-of-lows has just passed. You note that the 7.2-day valid downtrend line
would serve this purpose very well.

© With this general overview, you are now ready to complete the analysis
preparatory to setting up an actual transaction.

@ So as your next workshop assignment, place the pertinent FLD’s on the
weekly chart, noting any outstanding price objectives. Do the same for the
daily chart. Locate, and note the meaning of, any critical VTL's. Complete
these tasks before you consult the following discussion.

@ Figures 4-12 and 4-13 show the weekly and daily charts with the desired
additions. On figure 4-13, note particularly the 3-diamond nest-of-lows
estimated to be occurring at current time. It is the price rise expected out of
this 3-diamond nest, augmented by the impetus from the 7-diamond nest
just 32 days ago, that arouses interest in a potential transaction.

© At this point in the analysis you begin thinking of the logical action signal
and stop-loss level to be selected if a decision is made to enter a transaction.

 

@ The manner in which the action signal is selected must offer good assurance
that when it flashes its signal to you, the expected three-diamond nest-of-
lows has actually occurred. For example, if the 7.2- day valid downtrend
line were to be chosen, the price break of this trend line would indicate a
high probability that the next longer wave (14.4-day) had formed a trough.
This would indicate an even higher probability that all shorter waves had

 

pauassy ayany ty

“DUT 's944 849p811.€161 @ I4LEAdO)

@


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

 
 

 
 

  

oe
eaten TTT TTT

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FOUR continued
also formed their troughs. While this would not confirm that the 28.8-
day wave had also formed its trough, the probabilities would be high that
it had because of the implications of the phasing analysis. (A trough of the
14.4-day wave at this time without an associated 28.8-day trough would
force the unlikely consideration of three 14.4-day cycles within a single cycle
of the 28.8-day wave.) By this kind of reasoning you can see that the 7.2-
day valid downtrend line is an excellent action signal for this case, espec-
ially since its steepness would permit transaction entry at a relatively low
price.

© There are two possible candidates for a stop-loss level:

1. Just below the lowest price low associated with the 3-diamond nest-
of-lows just discussed

2. Just below the lowest price low associated with the 7-diamond nest-of-
lows at grid line 147 on figure 4-13.

© Your evaluation of these two possibilities by means of eyclic logie would
g0 somewhat as follows:

1. In considering the stop-loss level associated with the 7-diamond nest,
you do not expect a return of prices to this point until after the 18-
month FLD price objective has been reached or until after evidence is
in hand that this objective will not be reached in this 18-month
cycle.

Thus, this stop loss is as safe as possible from premature actuation.
The principal disadvantage is that if this stop-loss level is used, the
resulting potential-risk ratio will be rather low.

2. Inconsidering the stop-loss level associated with the 3-diamond nest,
you do not expect a return of prices to this point until after the price
low associated with the 28.8-day wave. But this price low should occur
simultaneously with a 57.6-day wave trough which might cause a
stop-out just before a price rise to the expected 18-month FLD price
objective. This is not very likely to occur because of the strong upward
trend expected to underlie the 57.6-day wave at that time, but it could

happen.


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

    
 

ea ttt

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FOUR cominued

© These discussions of action signal and stop-loss level possibilities are intro-
duced at this point because it is desirable for you to form an early impres-
sion of the problems involved if there are to be any. You will make a final
decision after the analysis is more complete and after the trading cycle sel-
ection has been made.

   

 

@ Now turn to figure 4-12 where several key weekly FLD's have been drawn.
Let's interpret these to see what evidence is supplied.

© Note the upward price break of the 98.8-week FLD between grid lines 145
and 150, The resulting price objective at 34-1/2 is even higher than deter
mined in the VRS analysis.

@ Next, note the distinct trough formed by this FLD between grid lines 170
and 180, This implies a cresting of the 98.8-week wave at that time, and this
implication confirms the same conclusion drawn from the phasing analysis.

 

© Similarly, the subsequent upward slope into future time of this FLD implies
that the 98,8-week wave will be operating to depress price over this region
just as indicated in the current cyclic model.

 

@ Now observe the 49.4-week FLD. The upward price break of this FLD took
place between grid lines 140 and 145. The resulting price projection to 28,
was overshot on the 49.4-week wave movement. This confirms the expec-
tations from the current cyclic model regarding trend underlying the 49.4-
week wave at that time.

@ The next break of this FLD was downwards, creating the price projection
to about 17-1/2 that was noted in the VRS analysis. This objective is still
outstanding, but its threat has been almost completely negated as dis-
cussed in previous sections.

 

© Finally, note the shape of this 49.4-week FLD. Its trough between grid lines
145 and 155 almost perfectly called the 49.4-week price wave crest between
150 and 160, Similarly, the FLD crest is occurring at current time, implying
2 49.4-week wave trough now. This confirms the results obtained in the
phasing analysis. The future time slope of this FLD is down — implying
future time 49.4-week wave action in the upward direction. Again, this con-
firms previous conclusions.

 

le

 

pouasay sua TV

su] ‘ssaug SI9PEAL EL6I @ WEUAdOD


© 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright

 

       

cycunes wee Hl] yr
reaming PTT

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FOUR continued

© The next step is to observe the pattern formed by the 49.4-week, 24.7-week,
and 12.4-week FLD set. Following the price low at grid line 175, each of
these FLD’s is above price and in cascade position.

© Note that the 12.4-week FLD has been broken, and the resulting price pro-
jection should break the 24.7-week FLD, especially since prices are rushing
up to meet a downsloping FLD. The 24.7-week projection should then pre-
dict prices that would break the 49.4-week FLD for the same reasons. The
resulting 49.4-week projection could put prices right in the region predic-
ted by the 98.8-week FLD break.

  

© You should note that this is a case in which well-defined pause zones have
not formed to provide guidance as to price objectives. (The PZ between
prices of 2-5/8 — 25 was of significance before the price low at grid line 175
was formed.) However, the entire set of evidence generated strongly sup-
ports the conclusion that prices are on the threshold of a move to the vi-
cinity of 34. The examination of the weekly chart that we have just condue-
ted has strongly reinforced the impression of a high probability of a success-
ful trade. This will not always be the case, as you will find in subsequent
workshops. If the evidence shows increasing conflict as an analysis pro-
gresses, the risk associated with the trade increases; and a point can well be
reached at which a decision is made to by-pass the potential transaction.

© Now turn your attention to figure -13 for a discussion of the FLD analysis
on the daily chart. A full set of FLD's is shown for the period just follow-
ing the 7-diamond nest-of-lows at grid line 147. The FLD’s were carried
this far back in order to determine the effectivity of the FLD pattern for the
near future time following the nest.

 

@ It is seen that the pattern immediately following the 7-diamond nest is a
classical cascade. The FLD’s are sloping steeply downward and running
nearly parallel. A break of the 7.2-day FLD assures a break of the 14.4-day
FLD, ete. A break of the 49.4-day FLD would ultimately be required in
order for the promise of the 98.8-week FLD objective to be fulfilled, and we
will see in a moment that it appears highly likely that this will take place.

 

© Now observe the FLD pattern at near-present, present, and near-future
time. The 57.6-day FLD had its significant price break between grid lines
160 and 165, projecting a price move to about 27.5. Such a move would

 

Page 62—

 


  

 

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 
 

LESSON I TT HW

    

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FOUR coninued
clearly break the 24.7-week FLD, thus continuing the expected cascade.
@ The 7.2-day, 14.4-day, and 28.8-day FLD’s are now above prices and in cas-

cade formation, as is to be expected if prices are presently coming into the
3-diamond nest-of-lows.

© Further, the 28.8-day FLD shows a clear-cut crest at present time, thus
impiying that the 28.8-day wave trough is near.

 

© All of these considerations reinforce and confirm all previous analysis con-
clusions. The HM situation as of 22 December, 1972, has to be assessed as
a low-risk buying opportunity. Note that a decision has not yet been made
to buy. This will depend on the potential-risk ratio and percentage poten-
tial analysis yet to be accomplished. But the groundwork has been laid.
If the remaining analysis comes out well, a go-ahead decision will be in
order.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

P06 63

paasassy s1q3ny IY

“uy ‘ssaag S19pe4], €L61 @ WYSUAdOD


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


€ €

 

 
  
  
 
  

HM WEEK ENDING: 22 DEC 1972 DAILY OL=5.3

8
FicuRE 41

DAILY FLD PATTERNS FoR HM nit oa ten

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

E
Po pmo eer Trae Hs RE .
0 haga Sear A |
Lo Pamawint 90} aro
BW | aw | se as
amo is} asf ae
x a we
[iso {Hes} 3353] a '
[0 “Fon #2
6 2.0
6 sl tarw
o 4 15.20
i é > 4} 5 90
9 Q 9 9 Q “o+ | 28.00
9 9 9 9 9 9.0 9 9 QD re = 0
000 O68 8 O88 03 680 009 0 9 rororo 7.20

il

 

vb ob ido 110 10 130 1do ido 160 140 ide’ ado™“Bdo

| A ll

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

l Lent!

AL ay ll

 


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

MU | HT} LESSON
my ‘ Hf ili |
EET a
WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FIVE

© HM is now ready for the process of setting up a transaction. This consists
oft

1. Establishing a sell objective
2. Selecting the trading cycle

3. Finalizing decisions regarding the action signal to be used

4, Determining the stop-loss level

5. Determining the maximum price to be paid at transaction entry
6. Estimating the percentage potential

7. Calculating the potential-risk ratio

© The best selling objective estimate available is 34-1/2. We will therefore
use this objective for pre-trade evaluation purposes.

 

© In section 12, some initial thinking was described regarding use of the 7.2-
day valid downtrend line as an action signal. Now that the daily FLD’s are
in place, we see that the 7.2-day FLD would make a very sensitive indica-
tor of the start of the expected price move. However, using this FLD as an
action signal increases the transaction risk over that for the 7.2-day VTL
because the FLD break would imply only the 7.2-day wave reversal as op-
posed to the 14.4-day wave reversal that is implied by a break of the 7.2-day
VIL.

© Also, since an FLD is constructed on the basis of average prices, average
prices must move through the FLD to constitute a meaningful break. Thus,
the occurrence of a break on a given day cannot be determined until after
the close of trading for that day,

© On the other hand, any price move through a VTL constitutes a break, so
a VTL break can be used as an intra-day action signal.

@ Inthe case of this HM transaction, we will elect to set up both action sig-
nals, acting on the one that is triggered first. A break of the 7.2-day FLD
would signal us to enter the transaction on the day following the break. A
break of the 7.2-day VTL would signal us to make immediate transaction
entry on the same day as the break.

 

 

Page 66—


 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FIVE continued
© With these two action signals selected, our next step is to identify the trad-
ing cycle and form an estimate of the trend underlying this important wave.

© Since in this present case we established price objectives prior to trading
cycle selection, we will now base selection of the trading cycle upon the cye-

lic logic leading to the price projection rather than upon percentage price
movements.

© This logic proceeds as follows:

poarosny sw TV
-auy ‘501g S199, 161 @ NBEKECD

1. To the best of our knowledge, 2L will be up throughout the trans-
action.

. The price projection is for the price high associated with the 18-month
wave crest.

We expect this price high to occur in the upcoming second 49.4-week
cycle of the 18-month wave because of high translation to the right
(SLis up). Therefore, we expect the 18-month price high to be associ-
ated with the crest of this second 49.4-week cycle.

4. If no additional evidence were in hand, we would see the 49.4-week
wave as the longest wave of the composite wave responsible for the

expected price objective — and we would therefore call it the trading
cycle.

5. However, throughout the transaction, the 18-month wave will be act-
ing downward. Thus we expect the trend underlying the 49.4-week
wave to be flat (SL $ and 18-month }).

. Because of this flat underlying trend, we do not expect any high trans-
lation for the 49.4-week wave. Consequently, we expect the price highs
associated with the first 24.7-week cycle within the 49.4-week cycle
of interest to be about the same as for the second 24.7-week cycle.
Therefore we expect the objective price for the 18-month wave crest
to occur at the price high associated with the first 24.7-week wave
crest in our second 49.4-week cycle.

7. Finally, we note that all during this first 24.7-week cycle, the 49.4-
week wave will be acting upward. Thus we expect the trend underlying


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

 

sRce TA
TRAINING || FHOHe Hn 4
Counsee LLU OCTET

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FIVE continued

the 24.7-week wave to be up during the transaction (3L t, 18-
month } , 49.4-week # ). We then expect high translation to the right
for this wave, which in turn leads us to expect that the price objec-

tive will be reached in the second 115.2-day cycle of the first 24.7-week
cycle.

8. This pins the trading cycle down to the 24.7-week wave.

© At this point it is possible for us to form an estimate of the transaction
turnaround time. The price objective should be met near the crest of the
second 115.2-day cycle in the current 24.7-week cycle. This would be about
18 weeks from the last trough of the 24.7-week wave which occurred 4.6
weeks ago, leaving approximately 13 weeks to go.

© Now that we know the trading cycle, we can determine the stop-loss level.

© In section 12 we did some preliminary thinking regarding the stop-loss.
level. We made the observation there that cyclic concepts provide two possi-
bilities:

1. Below the price low associated with the upcoming 3-diamond nest-of-
lows

2. Below the price low associated with the 7-diamond nest-of-lows that
occurred 4.6 weeks ago.

@ Let's review the factors involved in making a choice:

1, We believe that prices are currently going down into a 3-diamond
nest-of-lows. This price decline is viewed for the purposes of this
transaction as a buying opportunity within the rise of prices from the
last 24.7-week wave trough 4.6 weeks ago to the price objective. We
recognize this as a mid-band transaction with the attendant low risk.

 

2. Our intent in the transaction is to buy at as low a price as possible,
but to have reasonable assurance that the price-depressing 3-diamond
nest-of-lows has occurred before the buy takes place. And our action
signal selection was based on this line of reasoning.

 

3. We realize that the buy then represents an edge-band buy as far as
the 3-diamond nest-of-lows is concerned. This is associated with in-

Page 6.—

 


 

  

ry

4

  

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  

tt

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FIVE continued

creased risk since the action signal is less likely to prove that the desir-
ed nest-of-lows has come about.

4, In this case, the added risk of using this action signal is not very im-
portant since the whole transaction is predicated on the abundant
evidence that the 7-diamond nest-of-lows containing the trading cycle
trough has indeed taken place 4.6 weeks ago.

5. However, placing the stop-loss level below the price low associated
with the 3-diamond nest-of-lows—based only on the evidence of the
action signal—means that the stop-loss signal could well be triggered
just before prices turn around and move up to the objective.

6. The proper place for the stop-loss level is, therefore, just below the
price associated with the last 24.7-week wave trough—exactly as trad-
ing cycle theory would indicate.

® This places the correct stop-loss level at 21-3/8. We note that while this
choice decreases the transaction risk, it also decreases the PR ratio. Our
alternative would be to maximize the PR ratio by placing the stop-loss level
below what is believed to be the 3-diamond nest-of-lows, knowing that
doing so increases the likelihood of a false stop-out. We do not believe that
the circumstances of this transaction warrant such a decision, but there will
be times when it is the optimum one.

© We have discussed the choice of stop-loss level at some length in this exam-
ple to emphasize the fact that it should not be placed mechanically. In most
instances, as in this one, the selection of the trading cycle will point to the
optimum stop-loss level. However, the choice should not be made without
thorough review of the alternatives available.

© We have set the sell price at the price objective of 34-1/2, and we have set
the stop-loss level at 21-3/8, We are now in a position to investigate the
range of PR’s, buy prices, and gross percentages available.

© Using the appropriate section of the transaction analysis form of figure
4-9, perform this investigation as part of your task in this section of the
workshop. Check your results against the correct results shown in the fol-
lowing table.

Page 6

paasasay sind IV
“uy ‘ssa4g S19PBLL EL61 @ WSO

€

J


Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

nut

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FIVE continued

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

seu BHU RE D9
BUY PR % GROSS
AS.75 2 33-98
Arbb 3 39.90
24.00 4 43.95
Ad-56 5 46-43
A345 6 49.39
(23.01 7 44-93
22.83 8 srl
arer | 9 94.08
44.57 10 SA.26
p= (PRxSL) +8
- PR+1
gq = 00x (5 - 8)
|
FOR COMMODITIES
gq = 10x (S = 8) xV

 

© Our next step is to determine the maximum price that we can pay at trans-
action entry and still stay within acceptable limits of PR ratio and percent
gross profit.

© On your daily chart (figure 4-8), draw in the 7.2-day valid downtrend line
and find the price level of this line on the upcoming Monday. It should be
very close to 24-1/4. If this line is broken by prices on Monday, it is not very
likely that the buy could be effected at 24-3/8, but a price as low as 24-1/2 is
possible. The PR table shows that a price of 24-5/8 (24.625) is related toa
PR ratio just a little greater than 3 and a gross percentage just over 39.9%.
‘These considerations make a maximum buy price of 24-5/8 seem both ac-
ceptable and possible.

@ Ata maximum buy price of 24-5/8, the PR ratio is calculated as follows:

Page 70-——

 


mM in IIIT) S¥Suies
Pet | seamine
PETTITTE COunseo

   

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FIVE continued
1. Potential is 34-1/2 -24-5/8 = 9.875
2. Risk is 24-5/8 - 21-3/8 = 3.250
3. PR ratio is 9,875 + 3.250 = 3.04
4, Percent gross is 9.875 x 100.0 + 24.625 = 40.10%.

© All of this seems very reasonable indeed, so you make your decisions along.
these lines and then stick with them even if you are thereby caused to miss
the transaction! Remember, these decisions were made in the cool of non-
involvement and not in the heat of an emotion-filled trading day. As a result
they are likely to be sound decisions and are well worth abiding by.

@ The transaction has now been completely set up, and the variables can be
tabulated as follows:

1, Sell Price: Enter at 34-1/2
2, Stop-Loss Level: Enter at 21-3/8
3. Action Signal: Upon a price break of the 7.2-day

FLD, enter the transaction the
following day. Upon a price break
of the 7.2-day VTL, enter the trans-
action immediately. The price for the
latter break on the upcoming Mon-
day would be 24-1/2.

4, Maximum Buy Price: ‘At 24-5/8 on Monday. If the action
signal is not triggered on Monday,
maximum buy price may be lowered
each day to track prices, but may

not be raised above 24-5/8.
5. Expected PR Rati 3.04

6. Expected Gross Potential: 40.1%

 

7. Trading Cycle: 24.7-week wave
8. Expected Transaction 13 weeks.
Time:

0,

pauiassy swan IV

“buy ‘S5a4q S19PEL, E61. WBKdOD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘Al Rights Reserved

       

CYCLITEG TM a
sesice (MTT MTC
CANNING TTT TTT

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FIVE continued

@ Figure 4-14 shows HM as of 6 April 1973. The 7.2-day FLD and VTL chos-
ens an action signal are indicated, as well as the sell objective and stop-
loss level. Let's reconstruct the events following our transaction analysis.

@ The 7.2-day VTL was broken on the Wednesday following the analysis.
During this day a buy would have been made at 24-1/4 to 24-5/8 (we will
assume 24-1/2 as a reasonable probability).

© On Friday prices dropped below the stop-loss level that would have been
associated with the suspected 3-diamond nest-of-lows. The edge-band risk
of such a course of action is now apparent.

@ The following Monday price dropped as low as 23, then reversed dir-
ection (at the true 3-diamond nest-of-lows) and proceeded upward more
or less continuously to the price objective. The price objective was met (and
exceeded) in the second 115.2-day cycle of the 24.7-week trading cycle as
predicted.

© You have just worked your way completely through the process of setting up
a long transaction for the first time. The process will be similar, although
not identical, for every long transaction you will handle. Each step was des-
cribed in great detail, and your first efforts were probably quite time-
consuming. You will find that after you have gone through several such
analyses and gained the experience and practice that they afford, the total
time required for an analysis will drop to about 40 minutes to one hour —
a very small price to pay for success!

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Page 72m

 

  


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8) 6 3p -7 op 85 Boe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ait

 

 

Congr ©1979 Takers Pra ae 7
"athe Rene i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

CYCLITEC rT
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

 

 

 

 

SUMMARY

 

Page 74


© 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

Cor

seavine | (HATRAALLIC |
SERVICES ||||| 1 |
saatine | (AHAITIRLLNC:

@ There are two kinds of risk associated with a transaction:

 

1. Risk potential, which is an estimate of the amount of capital that may
be lost if a transaction is stopped out.

2. Transaction risk, which is the probability that a transaction will be
stopped out at a loss instead of terminated at a profit.

© Transaction risk is an imponderable, but a properly conducted cyclic
analysis can provide insight and “feel” for this quantity.

© Transaction risk is assessed by examining the quantity and quality of the
evidence that supports a given wave situation and by applying knowledge of
the wave situations that heighten or diminish this kind of risk.

@ Transaction risk is increased under the following circumstance:

 

1. Edge-band transaction entry

2. Transaction entry near a nest-of-lows containing long waves. The
Jonger the longest wave in the nest, the greater the risk.

3. Short transaction entry near expected price tops.
@ A transaction is said to be an edge-band transaction if it is entered near

the edge of the envelope that contains the longest wave on which price
objectives are based.

© A transaction is said to be a mid-band transaction ifit is entered near the
center of the envelope that contains the longest wave on which price objec-
tives are based.

@ Transaction risk tends to be low for mid-band transactions.

© Transaction risk is also related to the skill of the analyst and the degree
of emotional control that he exercises during a transaction.

© For ideal, proportional price waves, the maximum price change per unit
of time is the same for all waves, regardless of amplitude or period.

© This characteristic of ideal, proportional waves is the basis of a rule of
thumb used in predicting trend. This rule is:

Price waves acting in opposing directions at a given time tend to contri-
bute little change to price movement.

 

Page 75a


 

 
 

 
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
 

© To predict the trend underlying a given wave at some specified future time:

1. Add the specified future time increment to the phase of each wave
that is longer than the given wave.

2. Note the direction of action of each such wave at the specified future
time.

3. Determine the net difference between up action and down action,
ignoring topping, bottoming, or flat wave action directions.

4, This net up or net down action is the required estimate of the trend
underlying the given wave at the specified future time.

 

@ Anaction signal is a future price event that will confirm that anti
wave action is taking place.

pated

© Any future price event that the analyst is willing to accept as su!
evidence of expected wave action can serve as an action signal.

 

© The most effective action signals are:
1. A price break of a VTL
2. A price break of an FLD
3. A price break of a horizontal price line.

© Action signals may be set up for many purposes. Some of these ar

 

1. As stop-loss levels

2. As buy signals

3. As sell signals

As sell-short signals

As cover-short signals

As profit-preservation signals

As warnings to reevaluate a situation

ena es

As an indication that a transaction is doing well.

 

~

poarssay sir LY

-puy ‘ssaug s29p U1 €L61 9 WBLAKEO)


Alll Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

      

sreites TT
zeae [MAM I
COURSE© U

 

© Many purposes of cyclic analysis are served sufficiently well by the use of
two-finger time and price measurements. Among these purposes are:

1. Determining a trading cycle
2. Extracting information from past-time FLD objectives
3. Rapid scanning in either of two modes.

© Trading cycle is the name given to one particular wave in a cyclic model
which has special significance for a given transaction.

© The trading cycle is the longest wave in the composite wave that is depend-
ed upon to carry prices from the transaction entry price to the transaction
objective.

© The trading cycle may be determined:

1. Before a cyclic analysis

2. After a phasing analysis

3. After a complete cyclic analysis which has established a price ob-

jective.
© If the trading cycle is being identified prior to a cyclic analysis, two-finger

techniques are first used to identify key wave trough locations. Two-finger
measurements are then made of the average price moves associated with
the indicated nests-of-lows. These price moves are then used as the basis
for selecting the trading cycle.

© Ifthe trading cycle is being identified after a phasing analysis is in hand,
the same procedure is used except that two-finger trough location is not
needed.

© fan analysis has been completed to the point where a price objective is
available, then cyclic logic is used to identify the trading cycle. The current
cyclic model, the phasing analysis, and the wave characteristics used to
establish the price objective are employed to determine the longest wave
responsible for the predicted price change. This longest wave is then estab-
lished as the trading cycle.

© The minimum acceptable gross percentage price move to be used in estab-
lishing a trading cycle is a function of investment goals but should not be
less than 20 per cent.

ge


CYCLITEC
SERVICES ‘
TRAINING
COURSEO

    

ra

© Once a trading cycle has been selected:

1. There should be no shift to a longer wave during a given transaction

2. The trend underlying the trading cycle should be used to assess trans-
action risk

3. The trading cycle should be used as the basis for setting the stop-
loss level

4, If there is evidence that the price high or low associated with the trad-
ing cycle crest or trough that was to produce the price objective has
passed without the price objective having been met, transaction ter-
mination procedures should be initiated immediately.

poxrasay Say TV
“yay sug ape, €L61 0 WBHKEOD

© Past-time FLD price objectives can influence future trading decisions.

@ Trend underlying the wave on which an FLD is based can influence the
achievement of the FLD price objective.

1. If trend supports the price movement to the objective, the objective

is likely to be overshot.

If trend is flat, the objective is likely to be met rather exactly.
3. If trend opposes the price movement to the objective, the objective
is likely to be undershot.

‘© Observation of the manner in which recent past FLD price objectives have
been met can provide valuable information regarding trend, particularly

=L.
© Past FLD objectives are either outstanding or retired.
@ A past FLD objective is retired if:
1. The FLD that produced the price projection is subsequently broken
in the opposite direction during the expected time period.

2. A VTL based on the wave just shorter than the wave on which the
FLD is based is broken so as to indicate that the wave crest or trough
that was to have driven prices to the objective has been passed.

3. A full cycle of the wave on which the price-projecting FLD is based
passes without a VIL or FLD break taking place.

 

Page 78.

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
{All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC A A oy
SERVICES |||||\
seniige AT

   

© Information can be extracted very rapidly for some purposes. The method
used is called rapid scan and there are two modes of rapid scan available:

1. Very rapid scan, or VRS, requires approximately 5 minutes and is
used to determine whether additional analysis time is warranted.

2. Rapid scan, or RS, requires about 20 minutes and is used to positive-
ly identify nearness of a potential transaction.

© VRS procedures include:

1. Two-finger identification of pre-dominant wave trough locations and
measurement of pre-dominant wave period

2. Use of the pre-dominant period estimate as the FLD number for the
next longer wave

3. Two-finger past time FLD tracings, and rough future time tracings
4, Repeat of these processes for successively shorter waves as needed
5. Summarization of the wave information gained in the VRS passes.
@ RS procedures include:
1. Preparation of an initial cyclic model
2. A partial phasing analysis based on obvious wave-period samples.
3. Rough sketched FLD’s and VTL’s
4

|. Measuring strip passes to extract information from past-time FLD’s
and their objectives

5. Trading cycle selection and rough PR ratio and gross percentage prof-
it potential determination.

© Acomplete cyclic analysis is spoken of as a CCA and is used to finalize
transaction analysis before entering into a transaction.

© The more experience an analyst gains in the use of CCA, the more infor-
mation that analyst can correctly extract from VRS and RS.

© Inconducting a cyclic analysis, whether VRS, RS, or CCA, the specific
wave questions to be answered should be kept consciously in mind.

 

Page 79——


  

 

     

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  

tee

© The most valuable process of cyclic analysis is that of building evidence.
Such evidence is developed through the application of successive and inde-
pendent analysis methods.

 

@ The application of cyclic logic is another invaluable analytical aid. The pro-
cess consists of asking the question: “In the light of basic cyclic concepts,
what does this wave evidence mean in regard to the wave problem being

solved?”

 

© The process of cyclic analysis is never mechanical. Rules and techniques
are used as guides but problem situations must be handled by falling back
on the basic cyclic principles and knowledge of price wave characteris-
ties.

 

© Difficult situations should give rise to two questions:

1. “Ifall analysis results so far are reevaluated, would there be enough
information for a transaction decision?” That is ““Does the difficult

situation need to be resolved?”

2. “If the situation must be resolved, is there any other way to apply
cyclic knowledge to solve the problem?”

@ A large part of the skill in cyclic analysis lies in the ability to discriminate

between which analysis results should cause concern and which should not.

‘A question that often helps is: “Does this wave question really have to be
resolved?”

@ Just by continuing an analysis the analyst can often resolve a question-
able situation without the need for a special effort.

Page 8

vor egg PROS SNA ITV
uy 88944 S19pR] C161  IYBKdO


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

 

 

 

 

 

AI

GLOSSARY

 

Page 81


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

     
 

   
   

   

CYCLITEG l TM ah ras
SERVICES LH aste
TRAINING Oth
COURSEO UJ i UT]

ACTION SIGNAL A price break of a VTL or FLD indicating a strong like-
lihood that an anticipated price move is under way.

AMPLITUDE The size or amount of the price movement involved as a price
wave goes from trough to crest.

AUGMENTED MEASURING STRIP A measuring strip that has had peri-

od samples added to the original nominal-model and the Periodogram wave
period estimates.

 

 

AVERAGE PERIOD A wave peried estimate formed by averaging two or
more trough-to-trough measurements.

BAR-CHART A common way of plotting, or graphing, equity prices. The
high and low prices for a day are joined by a vertical straight line to show the
range over which prices traded for that day. The consecutive set of such lines
is called a daily bar-chart of that equity. Similarly, the high and low prices
for a week can be compiled to form a weekly bar-chart for the equity.

BREAK Prices break a VTL or an FLD when they pass from one side of the
VTL or FLD to the other (from above to below, or vice versa).

BOTTOMING In reference to a wave, means that the wave is forming a
trough.

CASCADE A rippling, or one-thing-followed-by-another, effect. In cyclic
theory, the tendency under certain circumstances for an FLD break to predict
prices which will break another FLD, thus predicting still greater price moves,
ete.

CCA See complete cyclic analysis.

COMMONALITY A term indicating that price movements of negotiable
equities have similar qualities in spite of the diversity of visual appearances
of price charts.

COMPLETE CYCLIC ANALYSIS orCCA The most extensive cyclic analysis
possible. Used prior to each transaction to assure that no wave information of
importance has been overlooked. The primary means by which transaction
risk is evaluated.

COMPLETION As applied to phasing analysis, the process of filling phas-
ing gaps after entry and extension have been accomplished.

 

Page &2.

 


 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

[Teta
ere

COMPONENT A single wave in price movement or in the composite wave
formed from several single waves.

COMPOSITE WAVE The single new form resulting from the combination
by summation of two or more price waves.

CONSECUTIVE TROUGHS Wave troughs from consecutive cycles of a giv-
en wave.

CREST or WAVE CREST The highest point on a component price wave.

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL A tabulation of wave periods, phases, and
directions of action. The best available estimate of the values for these char-
acteristics of the waves active in the price movement of a given equity at a
given time. Usually includes FLD numbers for easy reference.

CYCLE One complete movement of a price wave from one trough to the next
consecutive trough.

CYCLICALITY Derived from the word cycle. A generic term referring to the
wave phenomena in the price action of equities.

CYCLIC ANALYSIS The means by which cyclic concepts are used to pro-
duce transaction-decision information.

CYCLIC MODEL See current cyclic model.

DIRECT COMPARISON A technique whereby available period estimates
are laid out on a measuring strip which is then visually compared with price
action,

DOMINANT WAVE or DOMINANT COMPONENT The longest wave con-
tained by the Dominancy Envelope.

DOMINANCY ENVELOPE A computer generated aid present on Cyclitec
charts. A constant vertical height envelope containing most of price move-
‘ment. Contains the dominant wave and all shorter waves. Serves as a wave-

period divider.
DOMINANCY ENVELOPE CENTERLINE A smooth curve central to the

Dominancy Envelope. The sum of all waves longer than the dominant wave.

06 83 $$

vay tags, P2M2=H BRE TY
‘suL “s594q S19PHAL EL61 @ 1YBUAdO


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC

seam [| MPRA
TRAINING {
courseo WHIT f

DOWNTREND LINE A trend line connecting specially selected price highs.
The later price high is lower than the earlier price high so that the line slants
downward to the right.

 

EDGE-BAND TRANSACTION A transaction that is entered at a major
nest-of-lows near the edge of the trading cycle channel.

EL Read sigma el. Stands for sum long. Consists of the sum of all waves
longer than the longest wave identified and phased.

ENTRY The means of starting a phasing analysis. The placement of the first
phasing diamonds of a phasing analysis.

EQUITY or NEGOTIABLE EQUITY A generic label for securities, com-
modity futures contracts, etc., traded on an auction market.

EXTENSION As applied to a phasing analysis, the means of phasing suc-
cessively shorter waves after an entry has been effected.

FLD An acronym for Future Line of Demareation. An FLD is a forward-
shifted replica of past price averages and has useful properties.

 

FLD NUMBER A number used in constructing an FLD. It is found by d
ing the period of the wave on which the FLD is based by two, then adding
one.

FLD PRICE PROJECTION The process by which an analyst can, at the time
of an FLD price break, form an estimate of the extent of the existing price
move.

FLD PRICE OBJECTIVE The price to which an analyst expects prices to go
as a result of an FLD price projection.

FORMAL PHASING ANALYSIS A complete phasing analysis with a full set
of phasing diamonds, as distinguished from a more cursory phasing analysis,
that might result from VRS or RS.

FPA. See formal phasing analysis.

FUTURE TIME POSITION A place on an equity price bar-chart corres-
ponding to some time in the future; that is, some time to the right of the last
known price bar on the chart.

_ — Poge 84,


remy CYCLITEC ©

SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

GAP Ina row of phasing diamonds, a space too long to represent a period
sample. On a Cyclitee chart, a space where no price bar is shown because the
market was closed that day.

GRID LINE NUMBER Refers to the time scale reading on a Cyclitec chart
corresponding with a given vertical grid line on the chart. A convenient ref-
erence for various activities displayed on a Cyclitec chart.

HARMONICITY Derived from the word harmonious or harmonic. Means
that wave periods are related by small, whole numbers.

HIGH TRANSLATION The time translation effect as related to price highs
versus wave crests.

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL A tabulated set of wave periods derived from
Periodogram interpretation and the Principle of Nominality. Used as a guide
in setting up a current cyclic model.

LONG To go long in an equity is to purchase it in the expectation of selling
it later at a higher price.

LOW TRANSLATION The time translation effect as related to price lows
versus wave troughs.

MEASURING STRIP A strip of paper with estimated periods laid out on it.
Used in phasing analysis.

Also, a strip of paper with an FLD number laid out on it. Used for FLD
measurements.

MID-BAND TRANSACTION A transaction that is entered at a minor nest-
of-lows near the middle of the trading cycle channel.

MOST SIGNIFICANT PRICE LOW Means most visually evident. Applied
to the coarsest price movement between two consecutive wave troughs. A price
low that is made up of more coincident wave troughs than are adjacent
price lows.

NEIGHBORING As applied to waves, refers to two waves in a set of waves
whose periods are closest to being the same.

NEST-OF-LOWS. A time when two or more component price waves form
simultaneous troughs.

—— Page 85,

 

poasasoy siya IV
“Buy S894q S19PEAL E61 @ WBLKAO.D


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

  

3

 

siete
oks i
RELL

NOMINAL MODEL or NOMINAL CYCLIC MODEL A list of the periods
of the price waves to be expected in price movements.

NOW TIME Synonymous with current, or present, time. The time at which
an analysis is being made. The latest time for which price data is available.

 

PAST-TIME FLD An FLD plotted in the chart area representing time prior
to current time. Usually used to aid identification of wave trough location.
Uses a simplified FLD number consisting of merely one-half of the wave per-
iod estimate.

PAST-TIME POSITION A location on an equity price bar-chart corres-

ponding to some time in the past; that is, some time to the left of the last
known price bar on the chart.

PERIOD The length of time that elapses between a trough of a price wave
and the next consecutive trough of the same wave.

PERIODOGRAM A convenient means of presenting information about
many price waves simultaneously. A plot of wave amplitude versus wave
period. Consists of a series of vertical lines, each representing a potential
wave. Line height indicates amplitude, while horizontal line position indi-
cates period.

 

PERIOD SAMPLE A measurement of elapsed time between estimated posit-
ions of consecutive wave troughs.

PHASE The time relationship between two price waves.

PHASING ANALYSIS A procedure for isolating the wave components pres-
ent in a complex composite wave. A series of methods whereby wave trough
positions are estimated. The means of refining an initial cyclic model into a
current cyclic model.

PHASING DIAMOND A diamond-shaped mark placed on a chart to denote
the best estimate of the time location of a wave trough.

POTENTIAL Short for potential profit. The difference between the entry
and exit prices of a transaction expressed in price units.

POTENTIAL PERCENTAGE. Anticipated profit (potential) expressed as a
percentage of the transaction entry commitment.

 

Page 86—


HN

it

o

TTT l]]| CYCLITEC
ary || | Seavicns

Il |
LPL) courseo

|
1

=

PR An acronym for Potential-Risk ratio. ‘The ratio of potential to risk;
that is, potential divided by risk.

PREDICTION An estimate of something expected to happen in the future.
Never exact, always an expected high likelihood.

PRE-DOMINANT WAVE or PRE-DOMINANT COMPONENT The wave
just longer than the dominant wave. The shortest wave that is part of the sum
of waves comprising the Dominancy Envelope centerline.

PRICE ACTION or PRICE MOVEMENT Refers to the fact that equity
prices change constantly as time passes. The motion of prices as time goes
on.

PRICE-MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM A Periodogram constructed by
analysis of price data. Interpreted by noting the period of the tallest line of
each set that forms a peak in the Periodogram shape.

PROBABILISTIC Having to do with probabilities. Dealing with likelihood
stronger than possibility, but falling short of certainty.

PROPORTIONALITY orPROPORTIONAL TO A relationship between
two quantities such that as one increases, the other also increases, and by the
same percentage. In cyclic concepts, relates to the amplitude and period of
the various waves in a cyclic model.

PZ An acronym for Pause Zone A price region in which one or more FLD’s
tend to congregate in a horizontal band. A price region where prices tend to
slow-down or reverse a cascade movement.

RANGE OF PERIOD ESTIMATES time span corresponding to the dif-
ference between maximum and minimum estimates of the period of a given
wave.

 

RAPID SCAN or RS. A simplified method of cyclic analysis requiring about
twenty minutes.

RISK Short for Joss risk. The amount that will be lost in case the transaction
is terminated because prices penetrate the stop-loss level.

RS See rapid scan.

 

 

Page 87-

poarasoy sir nV

-auy “sang S4ape4] €161 © BAO


‘AU Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CYCLITEC Mt
SERVICES
TRAINING

COURSEO

 

SHORT or SELL SHORT To sell borrowed stock in the expectation that the
price will subsequently go down. If the price does go down, a profit is made
by replacing the borrowed stock with stock purchased on the open market at
the reduced price.

STABLE A group of equity charts that are updated, followed, and analyzed
regularly.

STOP-LOSS LEVEL A special kind of action signal. A price level at which a
transaction is terminated because the probabilities no longer favor a profit-
able outcome. This action usually results in a loss on the transaction.

SUMMATION The act of summing, or adding.

SYNCHRONICITY Derived from the word synchronous or synchronize.
Means to occur simultaneously in time. In cyclic theory, the term refers to the
tendency of the troughs of one component wave to occur at the same time as
the troughs of other component waves in the same composite wave.

TIME-ALONG: A term used as a convenient measurement of wave phase.
Means time elapsed since last known wave trough.

TIME SCALE Ona Cyclitee chart, a series of numbers laid out horizontally
and corresponding to a count of the vertical grid lines. A convenient means
of referring to specific grid lines. Also a convenient means of measuring
elapsed time between marks on a measuring strip.

TIME TRANSLATION The shift that underlying trend causes in the time

position of price lows and highs so that they no longer coincide with assoc-
iated wave troughs and crests.

TOPPING In reference to a wave, means that the wave is forming a crest.

TRADING CYCLE The longest wave of the composite wave relied upon to
take prices from the transaction entry price to the objective.

TRANSACTION RISK The probability of a transaction terminating at a loss
as opposed to terminating with a profit.

TREND Generally, the strength and direction of price movement if short
term fluctuations in price are ignored. In cyclic theory, trend is the sum of all
price waves longer in period than the specific wave for which trend is being
defined.


  

LESSON

4

 

  

Ie

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  
 

TREND LINE A line drawn across specially selected price highs (or price
lows).

TROUGH or WAVE TROUGH The lowest point on a component price
wave.

UPTREND LINE A trend line connecting specially selected price lows. The
later price low is higher than the earlier price low so that the line slants up-
ward to the right.

VALID TREND LINE A trend line drawn according to specific rules so that
the result has meaning in terms of cyclic concepts. Abbreviated VTL.

VARIATION In cyclic concepts, refers to the fact that actual local wave
conditions differ from the nominal, or long-term average, expectation.

VERY RAPID SCAN or VRS A simplified method of cyclic analysis re-
quiring about five minutes.

VOLATILITY INDEX A number appearing in the heading line of Cyclitec
charts. Gives a measure of the relative volatility of the issue; that is, the per-
centage rate, or speed, with which prices for the issue tend to change.

VRS See very rapid scan.

WAVE. As applied to price movement, a repetitive fluctuation in price with
well defined, measurable characteristics.

WAVE DIRECTION The best estimate of the direction in which a given
price wave is tending to move prices at present time. Spoken of as being up,

down, flat, bottoming, or topping.

WAVE-PERIOD DIVIDER A means of separating the sum of all waves
forming a given price movement into two simplér sums of waves. Each of the
two sums consists of contiguous waves of the cyclic model. The Dominancy
Envelope and its centerline function as a wave-period divider.

 

WAVE PHASE. An indication of the location in time of the wave shape. Con-
veniently measured as time elapsed from the most recent wave trough to cur-
rent, or present, time.

Page

voor ecg PMS SHIN ITV
uy 8894q SUPRA] EL6T @ YAO


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

SELF-EXAMINATION

 

Page 90 am


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.
‘All Rights Reserved

     

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

a

Itis suggested that you go all the way through the examination a first time
without referring to the cassette or text material. In doing so, mark answers
only to the questions you are sure of; don’t guess. Leaving an answer unmark-
ed will flag that question for further attention on the second pass through the
exam.

After you have finished the first pass, check the answers you have marked
against the answer sheet, circling any that are wrong. Then go back through
the examination and refer to the text material to refresh your memory on
those questions that you answered wrong or left unanswered.

   

1, The trading cycle
a. Is always the 18-month wave
b. Is the longest wave contained in the Dominancy Envelope

ye. Is the longest wave in the composite wave relied upon to reach a price
objective

d. Is the same wave for each transaction.

2. Trend influences:

a, The period of all shorter waves than the wave on which the trend is
based

b. Current cyclic model wave variations from the nominal cyclic model
c. Time translation and FLD objectives

d. None of these.

3. Transaction risk is a measurable quantity.
True{ | False{ ]

4. A composite wave:
a. Isawave whose amplitude is proportional to its period
b. Is seldom found in price movements
©. Can be used as a trading cycle

d. Cannot be analyzed by RS or VRS

$e 9


Ra CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

¢. Is the sum of all waves equal to or shorter than a given wave
f. None of these.
5, A period divider divides total price action into:
a. Atrend and a composite wave
b. Two composite waves
¢. Two sums which are simpler than total price action
d. Allof these
e. None of these.

6. Ifa single FLD price projection is undershot, the trend underlying the
‘wave on which the FLD is based is most likely to be:

a. Up
b. Down
c. Flat
d. None of these
7. An initial cyclic model:
a. Is not needed for a VRS analysis
b. Is used only for a CCA
c. Isused with all types of analysis

d. None of these.

8. If the trend underlying the wave on which an FLD is based is up, and if
the FLD provides a downward price projection, that projection is:

a. Likely to be met by prices
b. Likely to be undershot by prices
c. Likely to be overshot by prices

d. Not likely to be affected by trend.

Page 92

pawasoy suara ITV

uy ‘s8044 SHOP EL E161 @ YBUKAO.)


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

    

 

  
    

StRvices a w HH mi
counste LITT TL

 

9. When interpreting a Periodogram:
a. Harmonicity and Synchronicity are the most useful cyclic concept
aids
b. The initial cyclic model is used in conjunction with the Principle
of Nominality
¢. The Principles of Nominality and Harmonicity provide the required
guidance
d. None of these.
10. The word stable, when used in connection with cyclic analysis, refers
to:
4a. The fact that cyclic concepts never change
b. A group of regularly followed equities
c. The degree of variance of wave component periods
d. A building in which horses are housed

e. None of these.
11, Past-time FLD objectives can be classed as either.

+r

12. There is no such thing as low translation.
True{ | False{*]

13. An FLDis traced in past time. It is found that the next-to-the last break
of this FLD produced an upward price projection that was overshot. The
last break produced a downward price projection that was overshot. The

conclusion to be drawn is:

a. FLD price objectives are unreliable.

b. Price strongly tends never to reach a downward FLD objective.

¢. The composite wave consisting of the wave on which the FLD is based
and the sum of all shorter waves is erratic.

d. The trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is based is up.

€. None of these.

Sr 3


  

 

LESSON

4

Page 94,

  

15.

16.

17.

18.

14.

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

‘A valid uptrend line is broken by prices in the downward direction. The
implication of this event is:

a. A trough of the wave on which the trend line is based was formed one
period of this wave in the past.

b. The highest price within a time in the past equal to the period of the
next longer wave than the wave on which the trend line is based is
associated with a crest of this next longer wave.

c. The trend underlying the next longer wave than the wave on which
the valid trend line is based has turned downward.

d. None of these.

Risk potential is always the exact amount of capital that will be lost if a
transaction is stopped out.

True[ | False{-]

‘The more FLD’s that are above prices, the more susceptible prices are
to:

a. An upward reversal
b. A continued downward move
¢. A downward reversal
d. None of these.
There is less transaction risk in an edge-band transaction than in a
mid-band transaction
True{] — False{ ]

A current cyclic model turns out to be identical to the nominal cyclic
model. It is desired to predict the trend underlying the 10-week wave at a
time three weeks in the future. The first thing to do is:

a. Add three weeks to the phase of each wave longer than ten weeks

b. Note the net difference between the number of wave action up arrows
and down arrows at now time

 

paasoy sR IV
-auy 55014 SIOPEAL, L6T @ WBA,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

19.

2.

23,

24,

 
 

 
  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  

AT
cre TTT

. Determine the direction of action of each wave shorter than ten
weeks at a time three weeks in the future

d. None of these.

If the trend underlying a given wave is up, low translation is expected
tobe:

a. Totheleft
b. Tothe right
ce. Zero

d. None of these.

A potential transaction objective price is S3-3/8. The maximum buy
price is 39-1/2. The predicted transaction turnaround time is three weeks.
The annualized percentage yield on the trade (assuming a purchase is
made at 39-1/2)is:

a. 35.13% ©. 608.86% €. 450.59%

b. 315.10% d. 26.00% £. None ofthese.

‘There are times when a trading cycle cannot be selected prior to a trans-
action
True{]  False[-]

If a past-time FLD objective is not retired it is

 

Phase, as recorded in a current cyclic model
a, Used to determine £L

4. The time elapsed from a last known wave trough to now time
¢. Convenient, but not really needed in transaction analysis

4. Obtained directly from the initial cyclic model

€. None of these.

An FLD is currently above prices and going down. Three weeks in the
future this FLD rounds a bottom and goes up. The implication is:

a. Prices are currently going up

 

$$ ge 95.


 

28.

26.

21.

28.

29.

30.

    
 

aii

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

oat
tn

nt

1b. Wave direction for the wave on which the FLD is based is presently
down, but about three weeks in the future the direction of action of
this wave will be up

c. About three weeks in the future a price high is expected associated
with the crest of the wave on which the FLD is based

d. None of these.

‘The minimum gross price percentage move to be used in the identifi-
cation of the trading cycle is:

a. 50%
b. 10%
©. 35%
4. 20%
€. None of these.

A VRS analysis is best used to scan a stable of equities for potential near-

future transactions
True] False[ ]

An FPA is a prerequisite to an RS analysis
True{ | False[“]

In conducting a cyclic analysis specific questions should
be formulated and kept in mind.

A VRS analysis does not require use of a weekly chart of the equity.
True{]  False[ ]

A past-time FLD objective can be retired:

a. On any evidence that the wave trough or crest associated with the
objective has been passed

b. Only if the price objective has been met
c. By proving the FLD objective in question to be still outstanding
d. None of these.

0g 6 965 —$—$—$— _$_$ $$$ $$ $$$ $$

pears sha ty
‘Duy ‘ssa4g S49PEA] £161 @ IYSUAdO


ANSWERS

eS NAH AWN E

Ss

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al Rights Reserved

=

ROR

®

i.

12.
13.
M4.

16.

7.
18,

19.

CYCLITEC

   

22
Courses LITT

Outstanding: | 20. o.
Retired. 21. False
False 22, Outstanding.
da 23. be
b 4. ¢.
False. 2. d.
a. 26. True
False 27. False.
a. 28. Wave.
a. 29. False.
30. a.

pe 9


CYCLITEC

 

 

 

 

 

IT

COURSEO

 

CASSETTE SCRIPT

 

Pee 98


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

Le

SECTION ONE REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION

Lessons one, two and three were designed to provide you with an overview
of cyclic concepts as they apply to the price movements of negotiable
equities.

 

To accomplish this purpose, lesson one described the existence and char-
acteristics of waves in equity prices. Lesson two demonstrated how know-
ledge of these waves and their characteristics can be used to generate trans-
action-decision information — provided a current cyclic model is available.
Then, in lesson three, methods of generating the current cyclic model were
discussed.

 

To achieve such an overview, a great many of the ideas and methods needed
to apply cyclic concepts in trading and investing were omitted or described
with considerable brevity. It is the purpose of the remaining lessons of the
course to round out the picture and to provide you with the all-important
application experience needed.

However, the importance of the basic concepts of the first three lessons can
scarcely be over-emphasized. You should be able to draw upon them by
instinct before the course is completed. To aid in your absorption of these
basics, we will be referring to them repeatedly in the remaining lessons,
starting with the review in this section. You are most strongly urged to study
the review with care even if you feel you already know the contents by heart.

You have learned that the price movements of all negotiable equities have a
great deal in common despite the apparent diversity in appearance displayed
by plots of price versus time. These common elements are the basis for the
all-important Principle of Commonality on which the entire process of cyclic
analysis depends.

(It should be remarked that these common elements have nothing at all to
do with those things normally thought of in conjunction with price move-
ment, such as price-earnings ratio, potential earnings growth, etcetera. It is
not that such considerations do not influence price movement, for they do,
as will be discussed in a later lesson.)

  

‘The elements that all negotiable equities have in common are described by
seven basic cyclic principles which you should commit firmly to memory.
‘These are the Principles of Cyclicality, Summation, Harmonicity, Synchron-
icity, Proportionality, Nominality, and Variation,

 

Page 9——

 

  


   

  

   

   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

SECTION ONE REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued

The essential characteristics described by these fundamental principles can
be stated in condensed form as follows:

ry

One. All price movements consist of the sum of individual price waves.

‘Two. All price waves tend to have periods that are related by a small,
whole number; tend to have amplitudes that are proportional to
period; and tend to have simultaneous troughs whenever possible.

Three. A specific set of waves tends to appear in the price movements of
all negotiable equities.

Four, The waves active in a given equity at a given time tend to exhibit
variation from ideal wave expectations.

‘These basic principles do not provide transaction-decision information
directly. Instead, they are used to justify a body of methods and manipula-
tions collectively called cyclic analysis. The end product of cyclic analysis is
the complete evaluation of a transaction, obtained before transaction entry.
Itis perfectly possible, and indeed is the normal procedure, for such an eval-
uation to take place before the price reversal occurs that makes a trans-
action possible.

A transaction evaluation is achieved by cyclic analysis through a succession
of intermediate processes.

First: Price movement is separated into its component price waves.

Second: This separation permits the assembly of a current cyclic model.

Third: The current cyclic model makes possible an analysis which pro-
vides an estimate of the extent of the expected price move and
locates the proper placement of a logical stop-loss level.

Fourth: The availability of the price objective and the stop-loss level per-

mit selection of a transaction entry price for which the potential
for gain and the potential for loss are in acceptable balance.

Fifth: The current cyclic model also makes possible an analysis which
establishes the nature of future price movements that will con-
firm wave expectations and serve as an action signal for trans-
action entry.

es

paasassy SdH IV

“uy ‘ss24q S49PHLL EL6T @ 1YBUAdOD


raders Press,
All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 T;

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  
 

TT Hee HT WT eesti
rt
SECTION ONE REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued

These results of cyclic analysis are achieved by the use of methods and ideas
firmly grounded in the basic cyclic principles. Included among these meth-
ods and ideas is a new and important definition of trend; the concept of val-
id trend lines (called VTL's) and the rules for their construction and use;
and the all-new idea of future lines of demarcation (called FLD’s) and the
rules for their construction and interpretation.

 

‘Trend is most useful in determining whether an equity should be bought or
sold short, VIL's are primarily used as an aid in establishing the location of
wave troughs in price movement. FLD’s are useful for this same purpose,
but also have the important capability of providing estimates of the extent of
price moves. In addition to these primary uses, these two important cyclic
analysis tools are used in many lesser ways.

‘The process by which price movement is separated into its component waves
is called formal phasing analysis, or FPA for short. An FPA is accomplished
with the aid of an initial cyclic model and two computerized graphic

plays, the Periodogram and the Dominancy Envelope (with its centerline).

 

The initial cyclic model consists of a tabulation of pairs of wave period esti-
mates derived from the nominal cyclic model and the Periodogram.

The Periodogram is a visual display of wave amplitude versus wave period.
Periodogram interpretation is accomplished with the assistance of the Prin-
ciples of Nominality and Harmonicity.

‘The Dominancy Envelope and its centerline serve as a period-divider which
focuses attention on two composite price waves which are simpler than the
total price movement they comprise. During the process of FPA, the Domin-
ancy Envelope and its centerline serve as a bridge between the initial cyclic
model and actual price movement.

‘An FPA results in a best estimate of the time positions of all troughs of all
waves of a cyclic model. These results are obtained through four, ordered
steps as follows:

First: An Entry into the FPA
Second: Several steps of extension of the FPA
Third: Completion of the FPA, and

 

 

Page 101


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

   
  

a tit

SECTION ONE REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued
Fourth: Extraction of informtion from the FPA.

‘An entty into the FPA consists of the determination of the time position of
one or more troughs of a relatively long wave. Several entry techniques are
possible. The two most common are:

 

One. Use of the oscillations of the Dominaney Envelope centerline to
locate troughs of the pre-dominant wave, and
Two. Use of FLD’s in past time to identify probable trough locations
of a relatively long wave.
of a relatively long wave.
FPA extensions take place in four ordered steps as follows:

First: Direct application of the Principle of Synchronicity

Second: Search for wave troughs between consecutive troughs of the next
longer wave

Third: Search for wave troughs to either side of the time positions of
isolated troughs of the next longer wave, and

Fourth: Search for wave troughs by direct comparison of best wave-
period estimates with raw price data.

FPA completion takes place in two ordered steps:

First: The phasing gaps for the shortest wave phased are filled to ob-
tain a complete set of trough-position estimates for this wave.

Second: The harmonic gaps are filled for successively longer waves.

In extracting information from an FPA, we first average wave-period
samples to arrive at best estimates of wave periods. Then these best esti-
mates, along with the time positions of the last known wave troughs, are
used to establish when (in future time) nests-of-lows are likely to occur.
Finally, measurements of time elapsed from the last known wave trough
positions to current time provide the necessary wave phase estimates. Cur-
rent-time wave direction is derived directly from wave phase information.

Several general policies apply in the conduct of an FPA. For example,
in extension of an FPA, work always proceeds from long waves to succes-
sively shorter ones. In completion of an FPA, work always proceeds from

ee

paasassy sq3ry IY

“aur ‘ssoug ss0pEA] EL61 @ IBLAKAOL


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CYCLITEC

SERVICES rT y
TRAINING ih ri 4
COURSEO

SECTION ONE REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued

the shortest wave phased to successively longer ones. Those wave troughs
for which the most supporting evidence exists are phased first. Ambiguous
situations are left for resolution later in the analysis when additional sup-
porting evidence may be available.

 

An FPA results in the placement of phasing diamonds at the estimated time
positions of all wave troughs; in the graphical location of the expected time
of future nests-of-lows; and in information required for the assembly of a
current cyclic model.

A current cyclie model is an organized tabulation of most of the information
extracted from an FPA. It includes the direction of sigma el, which is the
trend underlying the eighteen-month wave; the nominal cyclic model wave
periods paired with the average of FPA wave-period samples; the phase of
each wave in terms of time elapsed from the last known wave trough to the
present; the current direction of action of each wave; and the FLD number
‘of each wave based on the average period.

Some transaction-decision information is immediately available from the
current cyclic model. An important example of such information is an esti-
mate of the likelihood of the imminence of a price reversal. However, the
most essential functions of the current cyclic model are to establish current
wave-phase status; to make identification of VTL’s possible; and to serve as,
the basis for FLD construction.

Having completed the FPA with its current cyclic model, we can then pro-
ceed to develop VTL's and FLD's. A complete VTL and FLD analysis in-
cludes FLD pattern interpretation and results in establishment of a trans-
action objective and a logical stop-loss level.

Once an objective and a stop-loss level are established it is possible to deter-
mine a transaction entry price with acceptable potential risk ratio and gross
potential percentage. We then determine the nature of the most effective ac-
tion signal, taking the transaction conditions into account and making use
of the current cyclic model.

This completes the overview summary of the major concepts of the preced-
ing lessons. Many details have been omitted from this summary for the sake
of clarity of presentation. For this reason, as you study the accompanying

 

Page 103 —


  

LESSON

4

—— Page 104

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  
 

SECTION ONE REVIEW AND INTRODUCTION continued
text version of the summary, you should refer to previous lessons as nec-
essary to refresh your memory in those areas where you feel your under-
standing is vague or incomplete.

    

Now that the basic cyclic concepts have been presented, the format of the
lessons must change slightly. Each lesson will still begin with a review and
end with a study summary and self-examination. New material will follow
the introductory review but there will be fewer exercises and steadily increas-
ing emphasis on workshops. (An exercise demonstrates one or two individual
points that have been discussed, whereas a workshop demonstrates an entire
cyclic analysis.) In these workshops you will be led to apply ever more com-
plete versions of cyclic analysis to a broad range of the kinds of situations
you will eventually face in the market place.

In the past three lessons you have been required to absorb a large amount of
knowledge. Further, in order to get to an understanding of the overall nature
of cyclic analysis as quickly as possible, the material has covered the com-
plete process of structuring an entry to a transaction using cyclic principles.
As a result you may be tempted at this time to apply your hard-won new
knowledge to actual transactions.

You cannot be advised too strongly not to do this!

The total material in this ten-lesson course has been designed to provide you
with the minimum of exposure needed to be effective in extracting transac-
tion decision information from price movement by the use of cyclic methods,
and there are seven more lessons to go. While it is true that the bulk of the
factual material to be learned is now in your hands, there are a number of
new concepts yet needed. But, most important of all, you must gain experi-
ence in applying cyclic methods in a wide variety of price situations. You are
unequivocally urged to restrain all temptation to trade until you have com-
pletely finished the course.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section one.

SECTION TWO TWO KINDS OF RISK

‘The concept of risk has been briefly discussed in previous lessons. In the
context chosen, the word risk was used to indicate risk potential, or potential
for loss. The meaning of the word risk in this sense is a measure of the

 

pasiasay swydna TY

“uy ‘ssaug $39pes E161 @ WUKdoD


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

   
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

dW
TH

      

Hl ] | | art
CTT TT
SECTION TWO TWO KINDS OF RISK continued

amount of capital that may be lost if a transaction is stopped out instead of
proceeding as expected to produce a profit.

‘The word risk must also be used in a second sense in connection with a
transaction, and this second kind of risk must also be evaluated in so far as
possible. It will be spoken of as transaction risk.

‘Transaction risk is a measure of the probability that a given transaction will
produce a loss instead of a gain.

It has been seen how risk potential can be satisfactorily evaluated before a
transaction is entered. Unfortunately, the state-of-the-art in applying cyclic
concepts to trading and investing does not as yet provide a similarly precise
method of predetermining transaction risk. This is primarily due to the in-
valvement of such factors as analytical skill and the ability to control the
‘emotions during a transaction.

However, cyclic concepts and analytical methods do provide a reasonable

approach to this problem; and there are two distinct ways in which the gen-
eral nature of transaction risk can be assessed.

 

The first of these involves a technique that has been touched upon previous-
ly. It consists of building up evidence that a given wave situation in price
movement has been evaluated correctly. All through the process of cyclic
analysis, as you apply each analysis technique you should be alert for evi-
dence that either confirms or refutes evidence previously obtained by some
other technique. By the time an analysis is completed, you should have a
pronounced “feel” for the transaction being considered. You may feel
strongly that the essential features of the analysis hold together well, or you
may feel that the situation is a confused and conflicting one. If the latter

is the case, transaction risk must be considered large, and it is best to trans-
fer attention to another transaction opportunity.

 

The second approach to an evaluation of transaction risk has to do with the
nature of the transaction under study. For example, if prices have just
rounded a bottom and are in a position to rally from a nest-of-lows, the
onger the longest wave in the nest, the higher the transaction risk. This is
because the longer waves require more time to reverse direction, thus pro-
viding increased opportunity for shorter waves to cause prices to break a
stop-loss level before proceeding to the transaction objective.

_—$.


  

LESSON

4

Page 106

  

lah

 
 

 
  

 
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 
 

 
  

SECTION TWO TWO KINDS OF RISK continued

The interaction of the Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity also
affects transaction risk. As demonstrated in lesson one, these principles
cause prices to tend to form clear, sharp lows, but rounded highs. The same
two principles also cause high translation effects to be greater than low
translation effects. These two facts make short-selling transactions near
price tops inherently more risky than long transactions near price lows. This
consideration and the methods of dealing with it will be discussed in a later
lesson.

Another important concept related to transaction risk is that of edge-band
versus mid-band transaction entry. These phrases originate in the curious
fact that price wave characteristics are such that a constant vertical width
channel can always be found which just contains virtually all of the price
movement of any given wave in a cyclic model. Thus, such a channel can be
drawn for each identified wave. A channel is another word for envelope, and
the channels described here are similar in appearance to the Dominancy
Envelope you are already familiar with. (The Dominancy Envelope just con-
tains virtually all of the price movement of the dominant wave.)

 

The vertical width of such a channel is sometimes called the band of the
channel. Therefore, when price movement is at the lower or upper edge of
the channel, it is spoken of as being in an edge-band state.

Similarly, when price movement is about half way up from the bottom or
down from the top of such a channel, it is said to be in a mid-band state.
The advent of Cyclitec Services eliminated the need to actually construct
such channels, but the expressions edge-band and mid-band persist and are
still useful.

  

It is intuitively and theoretically evident that a mid-band transaction has less
transaction risk than an edge-band one, assuming all other measures of
transaction risk are equal.

There are other results of cyclic analysis that contribute to the evaluation of
transaction risk. These will be brought up and discussed at the appropriate
times. For the moment, it suffices to call attention to the existence of this
important type of risk and to the fact that, while cyclic analysis does not pro-
vide a way to attach numbers to this risk, there are methods whereby a
skilled analyst can do much in the way of evaluating it.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section two,

paasasoy siq3na TV

“uy ‘ssaug S49PHAL CL61 @ BLAdO>


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

  

 
 

SERVICES ITF nt
TRaINiNg TTT

 

SECTION THREE HOW TO PREDICT TREND
In lesson two it was learned that many trends can be in existence at any one
time. Literally, a trend is associated with each wave of a cyclic model by the
fundamental definition of trend,

This concept was put to good use in lesson three in the discussion of the
quantity sigma el. As pointed out in that lesson, no current cyclic model can
ever be complete since there is no known maximum wave period. Therefore,
there will always be some composite wave consisting of the sum of waves
longer than the longest wave for which phase information can be obtained.
This composite wave is spoken of as sigma el and is a trend, namely, the
trend underlying the longest wave for which phase information is obtainable.

The concept of trend was also put to good use in the explanation of the
meaning of the Dominancy Envelope centerline. Here the centerline was
shown to be the sum of all price waves longer than the dominant wave. Thus
the Dominancy Envelope centerline was shown to be the trend underlying
the dominant wave.

Now it is time to extend the meaning and use of the concept of trend.

Once a current cyclic model is in hand, it is theoretically possible to esti-
mate future trend underlying each wave in the model. It is not necessarily
productive to do so, but it is often desirable to form such an estimate for one
or several waves.

The means of estimating future trend is provided by a simple technique
based upon the Principle of Proportionality. This principle, when applied to
a cyclic model made up of ideal, proportional price waves, produces a re-
markable result. No matter how long or short the period of the wave, or how
large or small the amplitude, each wave of such an ideal cyclic model can
move prices just as rapidly as any other wave.

In our study of ideal waves in lesson one, we saw that at the exact bottom
and top of a wave, the wave is momentarily not causing prices to change at
all. On the other hand, when a wave is exactly half way between a trough
and a crest, it is causing prices to move up by more price units per day or
week ot month than at any other time in the wave cycle. Similarly, when a
wave is halfway between a crest and a trough, it is causing prices to move
down faster than at any other time in the wave cycle.

 
 

 

 

 

4

Page 107%

 


     

  

 

CYCLITEG j
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

Pa tt

SECTION THREE HOW TO PREDICT TREND continued
It is to these two times of maximum wave influence that we direct our
attention. The crucial fact is that for any set of proportional ideal waves, this
largest price change influence is exactly the same for each wave.

 

pews sai ty

“Duy ssa SI9PEL] EL6T O ANBLUKMO

This is not an intuitively evident state of affairs, but the effect will be clari-
fied by an illustration in the accompanying text.

For practical purposes the result is that a wave in a current cyclic model
that is found to be acting in a downward direction at a given time is likely to
be causing a downward effect in prices that is nearly equal to the upward
fect of any other wave found to be acting upward at that same time. The two
effects would tend to cancel even though the two waves might be greatly
different in period and amplitude.

  

‘As a further example, assume a set of four proportional waves in which three
waves are found to be acting upward while only one is acting downward. The ¢
net effect of all four waves would be estimated as up and roughly equal to

that of only two upward acting waves. And this would be true no matter

what the various amplitudes and periods of the four waves might be — pro-

vided that the waves were proportional.

 

The estimate is, of course, relatively crude since actual price waves are non-
ideal and the Principle of Variation implies that they may not even be truly
proportional at a given time. Nevertheless, the technique described is of con-
siderable value in cyclic analysis when it is desired to estimate future trend.
‘As an example of how this technique is applied to a cyclic analysis situation,
suppose it was considered useful to estimate the direction of trend under-
lying a ten-week wave in the current cyclic model of a stock. The current
cyclic model already shows (by arrow) the estimated direction of action of
each wave at present time. For all waves of the cyclic model longer than the
ten-week wave, the number of up arrows and the number of down arrows
would be noted. Arrows shown topping or bottoming would not be counted
since it is assumed that waves associated with these symbols are not influ-
encing prices appreciably at this particular time. If all such arrows were up,
it would be inferred that trend underlying the ten-week wave is very strongly
up. If most of the arrows cancel each other, but the net difference is still up,
this trend would be considered to be mildly up.

But this evaluation is for the direction of trend at present time only, since

e086 $$ —$—$—5— $$ $ $< $$$


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, In.

 
 

 
 

  

Secures li HAA ‘A
Padinin) TTT

 

SECTION THREE HOW TO PREDICT TREND continued

this is the time for which the arrow directions were chosen when construc-
ting the current cyclic model. It is often more useful to estimate trend at
some future time during the probable period of a potential transaction. To
make such an estimate, it is only necessary to add an increment of time to the
phase of each wave in the cyclic model, redetermine the direction of action
of each wave under the new condition, and find the net sum of up and down
arrows as before. This can be repeated for as many such increments of time
as the analyst considers useful. In this way any desired trend can be esti-
mated for any near future time once a current cyclic model has been as-
sembled.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section three

for examples and illustrations of this technique.

SECTION FOUR ACTION SIGNALS REVISITED

Action signals have been touched upon in connection with the copper exam-
ple of lesson three but should be more thoroughly understood. The basic
idea behind the action signal concept is that price movement in the

future must be allowed to demonstrate that anticipated price wave events
are actually taking place before action is taken on a transaction.

 

Within the context of this concept, an action signal can consist of any price
movement that the analyst is willing to accept as being indicative of the
actual existence of wave events he has anticipated. Once an equity has been
analyzed, the analyst expects certain future price movement to occur as a
result of the wave situation determined by the analysis. He is interested in
devising a test that will reasonably assure him that the expected wave action
is actually underway. A positive result from this test would then be ac-
cepted as a reasonable basis on which to enter a transaction. This type of
action signal is spoken of as a buy signal or a sell-short signal, depending on
the type of transaction.

 

Action signals are not limited to transaction entry, however. A stop-loss level
is a form of action signal. In effect, the analyst is saying that if prices cross a
horizontal line drawn on a chart at the stop-loss price, he is willing to accept
this as evidence that the wave situation is probably not as envisioned and
that the likelihood of turning a profit on that particular transaction has
dropped to an unacceptably low level calling for termination of the
transaction.

——. rg 10


 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

    

SECTION FOUR ACTION SIGNALS REVISITED co
‘An action signal may also be devised as a trailing protect-profit signal, as a
sell or cover-short signal, or merely as a signal that a given wave event has
occurred. This latter signal may simply serve as an indication that all is
going well with the transaction,

 

inued

 

While it is theoretically possible to select any of a large variety of future
price events to serve as action signals, there are three types that are the most
generally useful. These are:

One. Price interaction with a valid trend line
Two. Price interaction with a future line of demarcation, and
Three. Price interaction with a horizontal price line.

Whaat is desired in all three types is evidence of the occurrence of predicted
wave events, However, in selecting, for any given transaction situation, which
type of action signal and which of several available signals within the type,

an evaluation of risk is also involved. For example, suppose a long trans-
action is contemplated on the basis of an impending nest-of-lows which
includes a five-week wave as the longest wave. Suppose further that the

trend underlying this wave is estimated to be strongly up during the first half
cycle of the wave, implying that FLD objectives based on this wave are likely
to be met or overshot. In this instance, we could minimize transaction

risk by selecting a future price break of the five-week FLD as an action
signal. But in doing s0 it is quite possible that we would reduce the poten-
tial-risk ratio to about one. Thus, transaction risk would be diminished at
the expense of potential-risk ratio. It is evident that action signal selection
must be coupled with good judgement in so far as risk factors are concerned.
These considerations will be well treated in the workshop sessions of the
Course.

 

‘The following is an example of a case in which a horizontal price line might
be considered for use as a buy signal. Assume a mid-band situation with a
very strong uptrend. A smalll price drop into a minor nest-of-lows has taken
place. This nest is being considered as a possible buying opportunity based
on FLD projections associated with much longer waves.

Itis strongly suspected that the powerful uptrend underlying the longest
wave in the minor nest-of-lows, and the attendant extreme high translation

Pra

po2soy sia IV
“buy Ssauq S1opEAL E261 © WBINKdOD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

SECTION FOUR ACTION SIGNALS REVISITED continued

to the right, may prevent formation of any VTL before swift resumption of
the upward price movement. Therefore, it might well be decided that a
higher price than the one just preceding the nest would constitute sufficient
evidence that the anticipated minor nest-of-lows had been passed. In such
an instance, this price action would be acceptable as a buy signal, and a
price line would be drawn horizontally across the price high just preceding
the nest-of-lows. The decision would then be made to buy if and when prices
had just passed through this line from below to above.

It is most important to note that the triggering of an action signal does
not necessarily mean that transaction orders must be placed. The analyst
may well decide to set up an action signal to serve as an alert after which he
is to reassess the situation and then decide what to do. This might then
involve selection of a second action signal to govern placement of trans-
action orders.

It should further be noted that instant action is generally not possible upon
the break of an FLD. In order for the break of an FLD constructed from
time-shifted price averages to be meaningful, the average price for a day (or
week) must break the FLD. Such an average price is not available to the an-
alyst until the day (or week) has ended.

There is, of course, nothing particularly essential about basing FLD’s on
price averages. A buy signal could be based on an FLD formed from daily
price highs. Or a sell-short signal could be based on an FLD formed from
daily price lows. In these latter two instances, any move of prices through the
FLD would constitute a valid action signal,

Such an FLD might be chosen as an action signal in a situation in which
the analyst felt that because of a very strong underlying trend there was
danger of his missing a desirable transaction unless he could get in with the
earliest possible action signal. But it is important to keep in mind that get-
ting in early does not necessarily mean getting in at the best price. The anal-
yst should recognize that if he uses a price-high FLD (or a price-low FLD) to
achieve same-day transaction entry, in all probability he will be left with a
lower potential-risk ratio than he might otherwise have had. Taking this fact
into account, he might still elect to use the price-high or price-low FLD
action signal in certain situations in order to guard against the risk of losing
out on a transaction entirely.

——$— $$ rg


  

rere

4

—— Page 112

  

  

    

  
 
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 
 

SECTION FOUR ACTION SIGNALS REVISITED continued
Setting up action signals is very like playing a game of chess. The player
has at his disposal all of the rules of the game plus the potential effects of
many different move strategies. These can be documented in books, but it
remains up to the player to assemble them in a winning fashion in any one
particular game.

 

  

You should turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section four
for a study summary of the concept of action signals.

SECTION FIVE THE TWO FINGER TECHNIQUE

Emphasis up to this point in the course has been on knowledge of cyclic
concepts and methods and on formal manipulative techniques. Still more
effort will be spent in these areas later, but it is now time to look into ways
of extracting useful wave information from price data with a minimum ex-
penditure of time and effort.

Such techniques are desirable because practical interest is not restrained to
one, or even several, equities. A typical portfolio management program
might allocate a certain percentage of available capital for short transaction
time trading in commodity futures. The remaining, and larger, percentage of
available funds might then be divided between short-term and medium-term
trading in common stocks. For both stocks and commodities, a number of
equities must be kept under analysis at all times in order to keep available
capital invested for a reasonable percentage of the time. These concepts will
be discussed in detail in a later lesson and are brought up now only to indi-
cate the need for rapid information extraction methods.

Several specific modes of cyclic analysis that use rapid methods are available
and will be treated in section eight. However, one technique is central to all
such analysis. It is called the two-finger technique and is the topic of this
section.

‘The two-finger technique is a way of making measurements with two fingers
instead of measuring strips. It is rough but surprisingly effective for some
special purposes.

For ease of discussion the index finger will be called the first finger, the next
finger the second finger, the ring finger the third finger, and the little finger
the fourth finger.

 

poasasay s1qsra IV
vwiskdog

“say 804d 9P¥AL EL6T


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
AU Rights Reserved

sees
EAM

SECTION FIVE THE TWO FINGER TECHNIQUE continued
For short measurements, most people find the first and second fingers to be
the most useful measuring instruments. For longer measurements, the first
and fourth fingers can be used. For still longer measurements, the thumb
and fourth finger are best.

 

Both time and price measurements are useful, as will be seen in the sections
to follow. As you gain a little bit of practice in this method, you will even

find yourself accomplishing rough averaging in this way. For example, sup-
pose you are checking the period of the pre-dominant wave by observation of
the oscillations of the Dominancy Envelope. The first and second fingers are
extended rigidly and used to measure a low-to-low sample of these oscillations.
Then, holding the fingers in the same position, the hand is moved to

measure another low-to-low sample. Suppose this is found to be larger than
the first. The fingers are then spread farther to approximately one-half of

the visually noted difference in the sample lengths. This process, when re-
peated for several samples, provides an average finger tip spacing, and the
average so produced is adequate for many purposes.

After obtaining an average period sample length in this manner, the hand is
transferred to the time scale of the chart without changing the finger spac-
ing. A direct reading is then possible of the approximate wave period in-
volved. A glance at the Periodogram and a mental comparison with the
nominal model usually suffices to establish recognition of the component
wave.

From a word description of this process, the potential errors may seem in-
tolerable for procedures as precise as cyclic analysis. But, as we shalll see, the
results are wholly adequate for some purposes and can be obtained in a very
small fraction of the time otherwise required.

In other applications, measurements are made of a series of price move-
ments instead of time differences. In these cases, comparison of the results
with the price scale of the chart is used instead of comparison with the time
scale.

Three principal uses are made of the two-finger technique. These are the sel-
ection of a trading cycle, the extraction of information from past time FLD
objectives, and implementation of the two rapid-scan procedures. Each of
these uses will be dealt with separately in following sections. The text


   

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

r I ar

SECTION FIVE THE TWO FINGER TECHNIQUE continued
accompanying this section illustrates the two-finger method common to alll uses
and demonstrates its application in price and time measurements as well as

in past-time FLD tracings.

 

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section five.

SECTION SIX THE TRADING CYCLE CONCEPT

In section three it was seen that, once a current cyclic model is formed, it is
theoretically possible to identify the trend underlying each wave in the model
and to estimate the future direction of each such trend. Fortunately, how-
ever, it is not necessary to do this for each wave.

On the other hand, there is always a single wave that has special meaning
with regard to a potential transaction and for which it is most important to
make a trend estimate. This wave, called the trading cycle, is selected on the
basis of price movement in a manner to be discussed presently. But first we
must bring out a very important point.

Transactions made on the basis of cyclic analysis are dependent on estimates
of the future behaviour of waves. This future behaviour can always be con-
sidered as due to two sets of summed waves; one being the trading cycle plus
all shorter waves, and the other being the sum of all waves longer than the
trading cycle. This latter composite is recognized as the trend underlying the
trading cycle.

 

We need to emphasize this important fact: A transaction resulting from cyc~
lic analysis is predicated on price movement due to a composite wave con-
sisting of the sum of the trading cycle and all shorter waves — augmented or
opposed by the trend underlying the trading cycle.

When transaction elements are summarized in this way, it is readily appar-
ent that it is imperative to be able to select the trading cycle intelligently and
to evalute the future direction of the trend underlying it.

In order to select a trading cycle, a minimum acceptable gross price-
move percentage must first be determined. The methods for this determin-
ation are described in a later lesson where investment goals are treated.
However, the minimum gross price-move percentages chosen are normally
not less than twenty per cent.

6 ————————

poasasoy swg8rt TV

“su ‘ssaug S19pEAL CGT O WBLEKAOLD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Al Rights Reserved

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 
  

  

SECTION SIX THE TRADING CYCLE CONCEPT continued

There are some circumstances where such a minimum price move need not
be pre-selected, but these are the exception rather than the rule. For exam-
ple, a mutual fund manager would probably be very content if he could buy
near price lows associated with the eighteen-month wave troughs. In this
case, gross price-move percentages are likely to be large enough not to cause
a problem, and the trading cycle would automatically become the eighteen-
month wave.

   

Generally, however, the process of selecting the trading cycle for a given
equity consists of finding that composite wave which consistently produces
gross price moves equal to or greater than the minimum gross price move
acceptable. The longest wave in this composite is the trading cycle.

‘There are three different points in the process of cyclic analysis at which it
may be found desirable to select the trading cycle: Before a phasing anal-
ysis is available; just after the phasing analysis; or after a price objective has
been set.

Itis generally most desirable to select the trading cycle after the price objec-
ive has been set, and while this is usually after the phasing analysis, it could
be before. Sometimes there will be good reason for establishing the trading
cycle before the price objective has been set (for example, in a search for a
fast turn-around transaction). But whatever the most desirable time turns
out to be, one of the following methods of trading cycle selection will apply.

 

To select the trading cycle before a phasing analysis, at least several key
waves must be identified. This is done using the two-finger technique des-
cribed in section five. With several waves tentatively identified in this way,
they are then investigated as possible trading cycles. The two-finger tech-
nique is again used to arrive at estimates of gross price-move percentages
associated with a given composite wave, and the effects of underlying trend
are noted. If a wave being considered for the trading cycle does not produce
the required minimum price moves, then a longer wave is tested. The Prin-
ciple of Proportionality assures us that sooner or later a wave can be found
that will meet any preselected price-move percentage requirement (within
reason).

 

If a phasing analysis is available, the selection process can start directly with
two-finger price-move percentage estimates.

pe


    
 
 

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

ea tl

SECTION SIX THE TRADING CYCLE CONCEPT continued

In the case where the analysis has progressed to the point where a price
objective has been set, the procedure is somewhat different. Here the mini-
mum price move criterion has already been applied. The phasing analysis,
the current cyclic model, and the wave effects used in setting the price ob-
jective are then used to find the longest wave in the composite wave res-
ponsible for the projected price move. This longest wave is then accepted as
the trading cycle. Once selected, the trading cycle sets several transaction
policies.

       

First of all, there is the matter of emotional involvement. The trading cycle
is selected prior to transaction entry, when emotional involvement is at a
minimum. Since emotional involvement can have a tremendous negative im-
pact on the profitability of investment operations if not kept under control,
do not allow emotional involvement to cause you to shift to a longer wave as
the trading cycle during the course of a transaction.

 

Secondly, with a key wave identified in the form of the trading cycle, it be-
comes possible to estimate the likelihood of a change in direction of the
trend relied upon to support attainment of a price objective.

‘Thirdly, suppose there is evidence at hand indicating that the price low or
high associated with the trading cycle trough or crest that was to produce
the price objective has gone by but the price objective has not been met. This
is to be construed as cause for initiation of transaction termination pro-
cedures.

Finally, the trading cycle becomes the prime criterion on which the import-
ant idea of a stop-loss level is based. If the trading cycle is the longest wave
of the composite wave depended upon to take prices to the objective, then

the recent past price high or low associated with the crest or trough of this

wave becomes the critical stop-loss determination point.

SECTION SEVEN USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS

The use of FLD’s in future time was described in lesson number two. Then
in lesson number three, one use for FLD’s in past time was discussed in con-
nection with locating wave troughs during phasing analysis.

Now we wish to explore a use for FLD’s in past time that forms an essential
part of the process of setting up a transaction.

lg —_—_—_—_—$—$— <<

poarssoy swan IY
“aur ss51g S9pE4] EL6T @ MBHKEOD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘AU Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 
 

     

SECTION SEVEN USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS

continued

 

In the course of a cyclic analysis as described so far, the analyst is aware of
those FLD’s that are likely to be broken by prices in the near future and the
significance of such breaks in relation to a potential transaction. But, what
about FLD’s that have been broken in the past — creating price-movement
projections that may also have an impact on a planned future transaction?

It is not intuitively evident that past price breaks of FLD's can provide infor-
mation of importance with regard to a future transaction, so let's consider
two possible situations of this type.

As a wave of any given period executes a cycle, all shorter waves cause
oscillations of the composite price wave about the path that prices would
have taken if the shorter waves did not exist. Along the way, the FLD based
on the given wave is likely to be broken, creating a projection for prices that
can be achieved anywhere within a wide range of times during the present
cycle because of possible time-translation effects.

 

As time passes, prices fluctuate as a result of the sum of all shorter waves,
perhaps retreating into a minor nest-of-lows. Now if you were planning a
transaction as this nest-of-lows is approached, future time FLD's would alert
you as to price action expected — but based only on the waves involved in
that nest-of-lows. You would remain in ignorance regarding the import of
the longer-wave FLD break which took place in the past unless this break
were investigated by the use of FLD’s in past time.

It is quite possible under such circumstances to be planning a long trans-
action based on a given nest-of-lows while strong downside price objec-
tives exist from previous FLD breaks. Thus, information on all outstanding
FLD price projections from the past can be of vital importance in planning
a future transaction.

To understand the second way in which past FLD price projections can
influence future transactions, the impact of trend on FLD price projections
must be considered.

In figure 2-16 of lesson number two, the rationale behind the capability of
FLD’s to provide price move estimates is demonstrated for the case of ideal
waves. In this figure a single ideal price wave is shown along with its FLD.

ge 1


 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

SECTION SEVEN USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS
continued
In this ideal case it is clear why an FLD break can predict a future price
move. What is not so clear is whether the FLD retains this capability in the
case of actual price movement which is a composite wave consisting of the
sum of many non-ideal waves.
‘The answer is that the FLD does retain this capability, although imperfectly.
Tt actually performs the price projection function incredibly well considering
the complexity of the composite wave involved, thanks to the Principle of
Proportionality. If it were not for the fact that this principle ensures that
each successively longer wave is of such amplitude as to effectively domin-
ate the sum of all shorter waves, the FLD price projection technique would
fall far short of utility.
As it is, individual FLD price projections are imperfect, and the variable
that influences projection accuracy the most is trend. The rules of thumb
that apply in this instance are as follows:

One. If the trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is based is
flat, then an FLD price objective is likely to be rather exactly
met.

If the trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is based

opposes the price move projected by the FLD break, the price

move is likely to fall short of the FLD objective.

Three. If the trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is based
favors the move projected by the FLD break, the price move is
likely to overshoot the FLD objective.

Two.

For these reasons, a single FLD price objective must not be considered indic-
ative unless a great deal is known about the underlying trend. FLD pattern
interpretation as a means of price-move projection (described in lesson two)
is much more reliable than the FLD break when there are uncertainties re-
garding underlying trend.

This tendency of individual FLD price projections to be affected by trend is
a disadvantage in relation to the accuracy of single FLD price objectives, but
it can be used to good advantage in another way.

 

The direction of trend underlying a given wave is difficult to determine in

00 18—_—<—$—$—$—$— —_— << — —<— << —

poasasay Suan TY
1d OPEL E161 @ INBUKdO:)

uy


Ine,

'raders Press,

All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 7;

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

SECTION SEVEN USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS
continued

many cases and can be of key importance in setting up a trade. The inter-
relationship of trend with FLD price projections can be used to gain much
valuable information related to trend.

‘Suppose that the initial estimate of the direction of trend underlying a given
wave at current time is up. Then suppose that in the recent past, upward
FLD price projections based on this given wave show that the associated
price moves fall far short of the FLD objectives. This would be viewed as
strong evidence that the trend under consideration was down at that time
and is now in the process of changing direction if the current estimate of
up is correct.

Evaluation of such results of FLD projections in past time can be used to
resolve ambiguous phasing situations, help in the determination of the di-
rection of sigma el, and provide early warning of trend change detectable in
no other way.

It is obvious that future price movement cannot be affected by all FLD

price objectives in past time. As a result it becomes important to have a

procedure whereby past FLD price objectives can be categorized as either

‘outstanding ot retired. An outstanding FLD price objective is one that is

capable of influencing future price movement, while a retired FLD price

objective can be dismissed from further consideration insofar as future price

movement is concerned.

When a price break of an FLD occurs, it implies that a specific price wave

is either half way up from a trough to a crest or half way down from a crest

to a trough. The FLD projection zone is based on the expectation that the

wave under consideration will continue to drive prices in the projected direc-

tion until the anticipated crest or trough is passed. Thus, any evidence that

the anticipated wave crest or trough has passed constitutes evidence that the

FLD price objective in question may be retired.

There are three principal ways in which a past FLD price objective can be

retired:

One. If the same FLD that produced the price objective is subsequent-

ly broken by prices in the opposite direction — and during the
time period when such a break should occur if the crest or

Page 119m

 


Alt

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 
 

al

     

SECTION SEVEN USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS

continued

trough in question has been passed — then the FLD price ob-
jective can be retired.

Two. Ifa valid trend line based on the wave just shorter than the wave
on which the FLD was based is broken by prices in such a way
as to indicate that the trough or crest in question has been
passed, then the FLD price objective can be retired,

Three. In some instances, usually when underlying trend is very strong,
a full cycle of the wave on which the FLD is based may go by
without either a VTL or an FLD break occurring. When this
happens and is confirmed by the phasing analysis, the evidence
is considered sufficient to retire the FLD price objective in
question.

This evidence is much strengthened if prices then proceed to
form a higher high or a lower low than the actual price associ-
ated with the wave crest or trough that was to drive prices to the
FLD price objective in question.

Past-time FLD's to be used in setting up a transaction are formed exactly
as described in section seven of lesson number three. The FLD number used
is based on the best estimate in hand of wave period from a current cyclic
model and is computed as just one-half of the wave period of interest.

The search is conducted for each wave of the cyclic model over a past time
period equal to at least one full period of the wave. A measuring strip may
be used just as when FLD’s in past time were used to locate wave troughs.
Alternatively, in many circumstances the two-finger technique of section five
is appropriate. The FLD’s are not actually drawn on the chart, but the time
and price of each definitive break is marked.

For each break, the actual price low or high associated with the implied
wave trough or crest is located and labeled. At the same time, the result-
ing FLD price objective is marked on the chart. The actual price low or
high is observed in relation to the projected FLD objective, and conclusions
regarding trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is based are noted
as part of the analysis involved in setting up the transaction.

a 06 2 ————$—

pansasoy S390 ITV
guy ‘ssadg SUPPEIL £L61 @ yysukdos


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,
All Rights Reserved

 

 
 

 
 

CYCLITEC | HAA reer
SERVICES ||| Ubud hidd
seniige| MMU

 

SECTION SEVEN USE OF PAST FLD PRICE PROJECTIONS
continued

Finally, the three criteria previously discussed are applied to each price
objective in order to determine whether the objective is retired or out-
standing. The impact of the outstanding price objectives on the transaction
under consideration is noted and made a part of the analysis,

This procedure sounds long and involved when described, but in practice
takes only a very few moments. The quality and utility of the information
gained can greatly reduce the risk of an incorrect transaction decision.

‘You should turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section
seven for examples and exercises related to this important subject.

SECTION EIGHT RAPID INFORMATION EXTRACTION
METHODS
The two-finger technique for rapid extraction of information from equity
price bar-charts was introduced in section five, and a few specific applica-
tions were discussed. It is now time for a more extensive treatment of the
subject of rapid information extraction in the context of a complete but
rapid assessment of price charts.
‘The complete cyclic analysis of price charts can require up to one or one-
and-one-half hours for each equity. This is a very small expenditure of effort
for the preparation of an actual transaction. However, most of the time most,
equities will not be nearing a potential transaction; and the task we are
faced with is to select the few that are from the greater number that are
not. If we can make this selection by rapid methods, then we can concen-
trate the bulk of our effort on complete cyclic analysis of only those equities
for which such analysis will be worthwhile.

Incidentally, complete cyclic analysis is a term we will be using often, and we
will hereafter shorten it to CCA.

The expenditure of even an hour a week on each of a significant number of
equities becomes a burdensome task to be avoided if at all possible. In this
section you will learn to use what are called rapid-scan techniques for the
bulk of all analyses. These rapid information extraction methods are fully
capable of alerting the analyst to upcoming transaction opportunities. Only
when such an opportunity is indicated does the expenditure of effort for a
full-scale analysis become warranted and desirable.

 

 

Page 121,


  

LESSON

re

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

  

SECTION EIGHT RAPID INFORMATION EXTRACTION
METHODS continued

The process of acquiring skill at cyclic analysis is a great deal like the pro-
cess of learning to be skilled at an activity requiring a high degree of muscu-
lar coordination. When learning to dance, for example, the formal step
movements are learned first, and synchronization to the music is crude and
non-satisfying. It is only after conscious thought is no longer required to
direct the foot and body movements that grace and coordination are achiev-
ed; the formal step is almost entirely lost — and full sensory benefit is ob-
tained from the dance.

 

Cyclic analysis is similar in that the formal steps must be learned and metic-
ulously practiced; but once they become instinctive, the analyst will find
himself extracting wave information with a minimum of time and effort. The
rapid-scan methods of this section are the first of several moves in the di-
rection of accomplishing the desired results with a minimum of time and
effort.

There are two distinct modes of rapid information extraction to be discussed
now. These are known as rapid scan, or RS, and very rapid scan, or VRS.

An RS analysis typically requires about twenty minutes for completion while
a VRS analysis requires about five minutes.

VRS is most useful for selection of a few equities from among many for
further analysis. RS is used on the resulting few equities to ascertain whether
a transaction opportunity is likely in the near future, thus warranting the
expenditure of additional time and effort on a CCA.

‘The objective of VRS analysis is to determine as much as possible about
current wave status for an equity in five minutes ot less. No phasing analysis
is attempted, and only minimal attention is paid to the Periodogram. Either
the nominal cyclic model is used for period estimates, or crude estimates
are extracted from price data itself.

For example, two-finger measurements from low to low and high to high of
the oscillations of the Dominancy Envelope centerline may be transferred to
the time scale for a rough reading of the pre-dominant wave period. Mental
comparison with the equivalent nominal model period and a quick look at
the Periodogram usually identify this wave for the analyst as one that is fam-
iliar and expected.

PD

poasason SiH LV
-ouy ssaug S29p84, €L61 © WHBHAAOD


‘AM Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

 

OO

SECTION EIGHT RAPID INFORMATION EXTRACTION
METHODS continued

Next, to investigate the next longer wave, advantage is taken of the Prin-
ciple of Harmonicity. Provided that it is not the 18-month wave, the next
longer wave is expected to be just twice the estimate in hand, so the two-
finger measurement of pre-dominant wave period serves as the FLD number
for the next longer wave.

This same two-finger measurement is therefore transferred to price data
with the fingers serving as an impromptu measuring strip as described in
section five.

 

In this way critical FLD breaks are noted along with their projected price
objectives and whether or not the objectives are still outstanding — all in
one swift movement of the hand. Further, the approximate location and di-
rection of the future time FLD for this wave is also noted.

During this process key price objectives and crest or trough locations are
roughly marked on the chart.

Now the pre-dominant wave period is mentally halved, and this new FLD
number picked up by two fingers on the time scale. Another pass across the
data provides quick information related to the pre-dominant wave.

By the time these two passes are made, the proper locations for key valid
trend lines can be identifed and the lines roughly sketched into place. Even
future nests-of-lows can be generally located with no real attempt at ac-
curacy.

‘The first time you try this procedure, you will probably be most surprised to
see how comprehensive a picture you obtain as to wave phase status and the
possibilities for an upcoming transaction, either long or short. And the more
experience you gain with complete cyclic analysis, the more information you
will find yourself extracting from a five minute VRS analysis.

 

‘An RS analysis is one step more sophisticated. An initial cyclic model is
assembled and used as a guide to establish key phasing diamond locations.
No attempt is made to fill gaps and the process is continued just long
enough to provide several obvious period samples for each wave.

  


  

eT

4

  

 

 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

  
 

mtn

SECTION EIGHT RAPID INFORMATION EXTRACTION
METHODS continued

To save time, these period samples are not numerically averaged. Instead,
they are laid out on a measuring strip and an approximate period average is
obtained by visual comparison of the sample lengths with the chart time
scale.

‘These rather crude, and quickly obtained, approximations are then used to
form FLD numbers.

‘A measuring strip is used to sketch in past time and future time FLD’s. The
future time FLD's are drawn ignoring short term price oscillations. The
result is an inexact but reasonable FLD pattern array which can be inter-
preted in the same way as in a CCA.

Critical VTL's are noted based on those phasing diamonds that have been
placed. Potential FLD cascades and pause zones are observed. And com-
putations of the potential percentage profitability of possible future price
moves are made where applicable.

The RS effort is restricted to a twenty-minute period and will provide
enough more information than VRS analysis to readily detect upcoming
transaction opportunities.

In fact a good RS analysis is usually adequate, by itself, to base transaction
decisions on. However, before an actual transaction entry is made, the ex-
penditure of another hour to conduct a complete cyclic analysis is not only
good experience but excellent insurance.

‘These rapid information extraction methods are best learned by practice.
So please turn your tape unit off now, and return to the text at section eight
for a study summary and exercises.

SECTION NINE WORKSHOP

You have been introduced to several new ideas in this lesson:
First: The transaction risk concept
Second: The way in which future trend can be estimated

Third: The concept of the trading cycle

8 ———————————

poasasoy siydnt VY

“uy ‘ssaag Suapery EL6T @ IYSUKdOD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,

All Rights Reserved

  

 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

   

I] | nt warren
Min init
SECTION NINE WORKSHOP continued

How to make use of past time FLD price projections, and

 

Fourth:

Fifth: How a large amount of wave information can be extracted
quickly by rapid scan methods.
The remainder of this lesson is to be devoted to the workshop, which will be
an increasingly larger part of all lessons to follow. A workshop differs from
an exercise in that a workshop covers a complete, integrated cyclic analysis
whereas an exercise covers only one or two isolated points or techniques.

  

‘The purpose of these workshops is to provide a steady stream of actual ex-
perience in the processes of cyclic analysis. As new material is covered in
subsequent lessons, it will be incorporated in the workshops as well until you
are applying the whole array of known methods and techniques to a wide
variety of cyclic circumstances.

It is of the utmost importance that you apply yourself diligently to each of
the workshops. Theory, rules, and descriptions of techniques are all very
well and are certainly needed, but absolutely nothing will take the place of
actual experience in cyclic analysis. Follow the discussions for each work-
shop closely, and endeavor to gain a feel for cyclie effects in price move-
ment.

 

 

 

As the workshop progresses you will be directed back to the tape from time-
to-time for additional emphasis and discussion of special interest situations.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section nine for
the first workshop unit.
SECTION TEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE DISCUSSION

The VRS analysis you have just performed demonstrates several aspects
of cyclic analysis procedures that are of the utmost importance and warrant
additional discussion.

First of all it is very important that the analyst have clearly in mind what,
end results are desired from a given procedure.

In this case, for example, the specified effort was a scanning operation to
determine whether or not a low risk transaction in HM might be likely in the
near future.

ge 5


  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©O

  
 

SECTION TEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE DISCUSSION
continued

However, cyclic techniques and principles were to be used, and they result in
the answers to wave questions. Only after these answers are obtained can the
implications regarding potential transaction immediacy and risk be de-
termined.

It isa very good practice to get yourself into the habit of always framing
clearly in your mind the wave questions that you are trying to answer as you
go along. As an example, the overall VRS analysis effort is directed at an-
swering the question:

Is the wave status for this issue at this time such that a low-risk trans-
action opportunity is likely in the near future?

‘To answer this question, the principle waves active in price movement must
be identified and roughly phased, and the FLD and VTL implications of

each determined.

‘As a second example, consider the wave questions you were asking, during
the step of the VRS analysis just performed, when you measured the elapsed
time between troughs of the Dominaney Envelope centerline oscillations with
two fingers. There were essentially four wave questions involved:
‘One: What period estimate for the pre-dominant wave is provided by
the fluctuations of the Dominancy Envelope centerline?
Two: Which wave component of the nominal cyclic model corres-
ponds to the pre-dominant wave?
‘Three: Does the Periodogram substantiate the period estimate ob-
tained?
What information, if any, is obtained by this process about the
cyclic state of this issue at this time?
In this instance, the first three wave questions were readily answered with no
conflicts developing. For the fourth question, you learned approximately
when the pre-dominant wave troughs occurred across the chart and that
wave periods for this issue might be running longer than nominal at this

time.

‘As each cyclic analysis method is applied, framing the precise wave questions

Four:

08 12 —_—$—$—

Panasoy sun ITV

‘Duy 824d SHOPHAL £161 @ MyBUAdOD

 


 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

  

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

SECTION TEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE DISCUSSION

continued

    

4

 

for which answers are desired is an excellent way to insure that no critical
wave information will be overlooked.

Another universal aspect of eyclic analysis was demonstrated in this VRS
analysis. This is the process of building evidence. At each step of an analysis,
certain evidence regarding wave status is obtained. However, an open mind
has to be maintained until all the available evidence is in hand. Evidence ob-
tained in one way is sometimes found to conflict with evidence obtained in
another. These conflicts must be resolved by generating all possible evidence
having a bearing on the conflict, weighing the relative credibility of the
various items, and arriving at the most reasonable conclusion.

There was an example of this process in the VRS analysis on HM. You
were obtaining evidence that caused you to suspect that a rally from a nine-
month nest-of-lows was either in the process of starting or would start soon.
Then the nine-month FLD provided evidence indicating that prices were
ely to retreat to 17 or 18 first. This was in conflict with the previous evi-
dence obtained by other means.

 

In this instance you were lead to investigate the trend underlying the nine-
month wave. The results showed that it was reasonable to expect that this
trend would probably prevent achievement of a price low of 17 or 18 as pro-
jected by the nine-month FLD. Then 25-week wave evidence supported the
conclusion that this price low was unlikely before the expected rally took
place.

 

The original evidence was pretty well negated by that which followed, and
the conclusion resulted that probabilities favored a rally from near current
price levels. This is quite typical of the manner in which wave status evi-
dence is compiled and evaluated. No one piece of evidence is ever to be con-
sidered inviolable. It is only the conclusions built upon all of the evidence of
an analysis that are accepted as representative of the most likely course of
price events in the future.

Finally, eyclic logic is employed at each step of an analysis to gain increased
information. As each new bit of wave status evidence comes to light, ask
yourself: “What is the wave meaning of this evidence when related to other
evidence in hand?” The meaning may strengthen propositions already under

 

ss]. ite 127


 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

SECTION TEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE DISCUSSION

continued

consideration, or it may conflict with them. And in the end, new knowledge
may be gained regarding wave status.

Again, using the conflict in the VRS analysis of HM as an example, when
the nine-month price projection to 17 or 18 came up, the cyclic logic went
somewhat as follows:

So we have an important FLD projection that conflicts with other available
evidence. What do we know about wave effects that might influence the
believability of such an FLD objective.

This calls to mind the impact of trend on the attainment of price objectives,
and immediately the proper course of action is suggested:

A need exists to evaluate the trend underlying the nine-month wave during
the time period when the FLD projection took place.

‘The VRS analysis of HM contains several examples of techniques and ways
of thinking that are applicable in general to all of cyclic analysis. These
include:

One: The importance of setting up specific wave questions to be ans-
swered by analysis procedures

Two. The method of building evidence regarding wave status, and

Three. The use of cyclic logic to complement individual analysis meth-
ods in the extraction of wave information.

Please turn your tape unit off now, and return to the text at section ten for
the second unit of this workshop.

SECTION ELEVEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO
DISCUSSION

In this section of the workshop you have been introduced to a new type of
situation. In following the rules available for the application of a cyclic an-

alysis method you suddenly found yourself unable to continue, at least in an
orthodox manner.

The lesson to be learned is that cyclic analysis is never mechanical. The rules

006128 —_—$_—_——— —

posasay sina nV
-auy ssaug S19pA], EL61 @ WRK,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.
All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

SECTION ELEVEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO
DISCUSSION continued

and techniques are convenient, and even indispensable, guides — but prob-
lem situations must be handled by falling back on the basic cyclic principles
and your own knowledge of price wave characteristics.

Fortunately, the ability to exercise cyclic logic is readily acquired no matter
how difficult it may seem to the beginner. Alll that is necessary is a thorough
grounding in the fundamentals plus a certain amount of experience. Provid-
ing the latter is, of course, the purpose of the workshops.

When you come across a seemingly difficult situation, you will find it help-
ful to ask yourself the following questions:

One: “If I re-evaluate all of the information now in hand, would the
results warrant a transaction decision?”

Two: “If not, is there any other way to apply cyclic knowledge in order
to get over the hurdle?”

Do not, however, make the mistake of settling upon one or several key ele-
ments of cyclic concepts and expecting these alone to always produce the
needed information. They may, indeed, produce the information required,
but, without the application of the totality of cyclic concepts in the process
of building evidence, the information produced may very well result in poor
or erroneous transaction decisions. And do not fall into the trap of stopping
your search for information when you find a piece of evidence that gives you
the answer you may want to hear. There may be other, overriding informa-
tion available that would produce the opposite answer and thus save you a
painful error.

You should aim all through the course at getting a usable grasp of all
the concepts and methods presented.

It is well to remember also that cyclic analysis can never produce unflawed
knowledge of wave status. This being the nature of things, the analyst must
be satisfied when the preponderance of evidence from multiple sources is in
agreement. The beginner becomes distraught when all does not fit like a
picture puzzle. The expert inquires whether the pieces fit well enough.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section eleven.


    
 
 

   

——— Page 130.

Pa tn

 

 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

SECTION TWELVE WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE
DISCUSSION

There is another important lesson to be learned from the daily phasing anal-
ysis of HM.

Notice first of all how very straightforward this analysis was by comparison
with that of the weekly chart. Certainly, when this task was complete, you
should have been left with a strong feeling of confidence that the analysis,
was correct and meaningful.

By contrast, when the weekly analysis was finished, the question was actual-
ly raised as to whether or not to abandon further effort on the issue for a
time.

In retrospect, it can be seen that the only items of real importance contribu-
ted by the weekly analysis in this situation were:

One. The existence of the troublesome downward price objective pro-
jected by the nine-month FLD.

Two. The existence of an outstanding upward price objective projec-
ted by the cighteen-month FLD.

Three. The critical fact that the important nest-of-lows at grid line 147
on the daily chart includes all waves up through the nine-month
wave.

All other ambiguities and uncertainties on the weekly chart did not require
resolution in order for a transaction decision to be made!

This kind of circumstance occurs repeatedly in cyclic analysis. The newcom-
er to cyclic analysis might very well have become discouraged and discon-
tinued the analysis before completing the weekly phasing effort. The more
experienced analyst would know that many, many times, the analytical prob-
em of the moment goes away as the overall analysis progresses.

This point cannot be made too strongly. You must avoid firm conclusions
along any lines until the analysis processes are complete and have been thor-
oughly evaluated. Above all, do not discontinue an analysis just because it
does not seem to be going smoothly.

A very large part of the skill in cyclic analysis lies in the ability to discrim-
inate between which analysis results should cause concern and which should

 

paasasay sy3ny ITV

“say ‘ssaug SUAPEAL E161 © WYBLAAO


Alll Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

   
  

SERVICES aa
peAiNg TTT

il

 

SECTION TWELVE WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE
DISCUSSION continued

not. It is typical of the newcomer to wear himself out trying to resolve
uation that will eventually be shown not to influence a transaction decision
either way. As you work your way through additional workshops, make a
habit of asking yourself: “Does this question really have to be resolved?” If
the answer is yes, it may still be to your advantage to leave the question in
abeyance for the moment. Continuing the analysis often provides the needed
answer without special effort on your part.

  

You should turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section
twelve for a continuation of the process of cyclic analysis for H.M.

SECTION THIRTEEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FOUR
DISCUSSION

In this workshop unit you have progressed your cyclic analysis from a phas-
ing analysis and current cyclic model to a set of almost fully analyzed charts.
In doing so, you developed several points of general significance.

First you noted that pause zones did not occur in this analysis to aid in set-
ting price objectives. This is somewhat unusual in that more times than not
these useful patterns are present.

The significance of this fact is that a complete analysis providing low trans-
action risk assurance was possible even in the absence of PZ patterns. As
with all other aids to cyclic analysis, information is to be extracted from
PZ's when they are present, but their presence does not necessarily imply
that a successful analysis can be completed nor does their absence necessari-
ly imply that a successful analysis cannot be completed.

Next, you saw that no really new and startling information came to light in
the course of the CCA. Most of the key conclusions had already surfaced
during the VRS. The question naturally arises: “Why expend the time and
effort on CCA?”

‘The answer to this question comes in three parts:

First: The CCA accomplished a tremendous amount of good by con-
firming in many different ways the impressions you gained from
the VRS analysis. All of this confirmation was strongly instru-
mental in your arriving at the conclusion that the transaction

 


 

  

LESSON

4

  

 

 

   
 

TINT) SY SUITES
1}||| SERVICES
i if TRAINING

COURSEO

SECTION THIRTEEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER FOUR
DISCUSSION continued
was low-risk in nature, that is, had a high probability of produc-
ing a profit rather than a loss.

Second: The CCA assured you that no critical element of cyclicality had
been overlooked.

Finally: The forty minutes to one hour spent on this CCA is a very small
insurance premium to pay when it is hard-earned capital that
will be placed in jeopardy if the analysis is incomplete or in-
correct.

There is one final but vital procedure that must be undertaken before it can
be said that you have been through the full process or cyclic analysis. This
is the procedure that is called setting up a transaction. So please return to
the text at section thirteen.

SECTION FOURTEEN CONCLUSION

In this lesson you have learned about transaction risk, how to predict trend,
how to conduct rapid-scan analyses, the way to take advantage of past FLD
price projections, and how to select and use a trading cycle.

In addition, you have worked your way for the first time through the com-
plete process of analyzing a long transaction.

In the lessons to come you will learn how to conduct yourself in the course
of a transaction, how to make short transactions, how to control your emo-
tions, and what is involved in handling a portfolio. You will learn that there
are various types of market environments to contend with and how this af-
fects your decision-making processes. And, most important of all, you will be
exposed to a variety of transaction analysis situations.

Your expertise will increase to the degree that you will be amused by the
trouble experienced and time expended in this, your first, transaction
analysis!

This is the end of the tape cassette for lesson number four of the Cyclitec
Services Training Course. You should turn your tape unit off now and return
to the text to study the lesson summary and take the self-examination
provided.

Page 132

paasasay su3ra TV
“suy ‘ssazg S498 €L61 @ WBLLAdOD


 

 

 

 

J.M. Hurst
Cycles Course

Lesson 5:
How To Deal with
Tops & Short Selling

 

PO Box 6206
Greenville, SC 29606

Serving Traders Since 1975

 


rec MTT TMM! ry

HOW TO DEAL WITH TOPS
AND SHORTS

PLEASE INSTALL THE LESSON NO. 5 CASSETTE IN YOUR TAPE UNIT
AND TURN THE TAPE UNIT ON


 

 

 

Data and materials are furnished by CycliTec Services to subscribers for their private
use. Information and opinions, expressed or implied, are based on techniques and/or
sources believed to be reliable, but accuracy or completeness is not guaranteed,
Principals of or persons or entities affiliated with or having an interest in CyeliTee
Services may, from time to time, prior and/or subsequent to the dissemination of data
and materials relating to specific securities, hold interests in said securities

CycliTee Services is registered as Investment Adviser with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Investment Adviser Act of 1940.

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al Rights Reserved

 


ights Reserved

 

2

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

2. What Affects Market Tops ..
3. Edge-Band and Mid-Band Short Sales .
4. The Mid-Channel Pause.
5. Special Idiosyncracies of Short Sales .
6. How Fundamentals Affect Price Waves ....

7. Workshop Unit Number One ....

LESSON

 

--Page 4

 

- Page 8

 

 

- Page I

 

- Page 15

 

-» Page 17

 

Page 24

 

8 Workshop Unit Number Two...........e00005 Page 31

 

Glossary ..

 

Self-Examination

Self-Examination Answers

Cassette Seript.....

 

 

Page 38
Page 42
Page 53
Page 63

-- Page 76

 

Page 77

eee i.

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al Rights Reserved

|) aa

   

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

S1.
S-2.
5-3.
5-4.
55.
5-6.
5-7.
5-8,
5-9.

5-10.

5-12.

$13,

| LTR Weekly CCA

Price-Top Characteristics ..

 

Edge-Band and Mid-Band Short-Sale Ranges. ... Page 10
The Mid-Channel Pause Effect ..............
A Type One Fundamental Interaction.........
A Type Two Fundamental Interaction.........
Another Type Two Fundamental Interaction.
‘A Type Three Fundamental Interaction .......

Transaction Analysis Form. .

 

Weekly Chart of Loews Corporation,
29 December 1972

 

Daily Chart of Loews Corporation,
29 December 1972

  
 

LTR Daily CCA

Results of LTR Transaction.

 

 

  

eee ges,

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC TT er

TRAINEN
NGURSE

 

REVIEW

© The process of analyzing any transaction using cyclic principles consists
of 14 basic steps:

1. VRS or RS analysis to determine whether additional analysis is war-
ranted

2. An FPA resulting in fully phased charts

3. Construction of a current cyclic model

 

4. Extraction from the FPA and current cyclic model of information
on transaction risk and the nearness of possible action

5. Lay-out of current and future time FLD’s, and construction of past
time VTL's and FLD’s when required to answer specific wave ques-
ns

Interpretation of FLD patterns
Determination of the transaction price objective

Identification of the trading cycle

ee are

Selection of a suitable action signal

10. Determination of the near-future direction of the trend underlying
the trading cycle

11. Selection of the stop-loss level

12. Tabulation of PR ratios and gross potential percentages versus trans-
action entry prices

13. Determination of the maximum buy price or the minimum sell-short

price

 

14, Final reevaluation of transaction risk.

© There are two modes of rapid information extraction used to scan a stable
of equities to determine which ones are most likely to offer transaction op-
Portunities in the near future, These are very rapid scan (VRS), and rapid
sean (RS). VRS analysis requires of the order of 5 minutes, while RS takes
about 20 minutes.


  

CYCLITEC

   

TTT

J bla it 3
‘section one Fs: \aina
LU LL COURSEO

REVIEW continued
© Acomplete cyclic analysis (CCA) requires 40 minutes to an hour, and con-
sists of 12 steps:

1. Preparation of a weekly initial cyclic model
Completion of a weekly FPA

Completion of a weekly current cyclic model
Preparation of a daily initial cyclic model

. Completion of a daily FPA

Completion of a daily current cyclic model

. Formation of a composite current cyclic model

 

earner

. ‘Transfer of phasing information from the weekly chart to the daily
chart

9. Determination of the time location of future nests-of-lows

 

10. Use of past time VTL's and FLD's when necessary to answer spec
wave questions

11. Construction of current and future time FLD's
12. Interpretation of FLD patterns.

© Transaction risk, unlike risk potential, is not readily quantified. Where risk

potential is an estimate of the amount of capital that may be lost in a trans-
action, transaction tisk is a measure of the likelihood of having to take that
Joss rather than terminating the transaction at a profit. Through experi-
ence, the analyst develops a feel for this kind of risk. As an analysis pro-
gresses, an impression is formed as to whether or not the transaction risk is
acceptable.

 

© Analysis of past-time FLD objectives examines the way price action has be-
haved in the past in relation to single FLD price projections. Outstanding
FLD projections are identified, and information is obtained on trends.

© Action signals are used for a variety of purposes. Among these are stop-
loss levels, buy signals, sell signals, sell-short signals, cover-short signals,

0G ¢ 2 —$—$—$—$—=&—  __$$_

o

paasasay s1y3ry IV

“uy ‘ssaag S4peL E161 @ 1NBIsKdo

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Alll Rights Reserved

Ty LESSON

section one 5
©

REVIEW continued

and trailing profit-preservation levels. The most commonly used action sig-
nals are price interaction with FLD’s, VTL’s, and horizontal price lines.

© A trading cycle is the longest wave of the composite wave depended upon
to carty prices from transaction entry to the objective. In some situations,
an analysis can warrant choosing a shorter wave as the trading cycle so
long as the implications are the same. The trading cycle determines the
stop-loss level, and the trend underlying the trading cycle is important in
evaluating transaction risk. Once a transaction has been initiated, it is gen-
erally inadvisable to alter the initial choice of the trading cycle.

© These concepts are fundamental to the application of cyclic principles to
investing and trading, and should be studied until complete familiarity is
achieved. When you have finished,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON,

 

te 3p


Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

 

section two
iG

WHAT AFFECTS MARKET TOPS

© The market price averages and individual equities all show fundamental
cyclic differences between price tops and price bottoms.

© The Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity are largely responsible
for this effect. The combined result of these two principles is to assure a
strong tendency for nests-of-lows to form, and to assure an equally strong
tendency for nests-of-highs not to form, (Please refer to figure 1-15 in lesson
one.)

© Asa result of nest-of-low formation, a number of waves tend to act together
in driving prices into a low, and to reverse themselves simultaneously caus-
ing a sharp price reversal.

© Just the opposite is true in the case of price tops, during which waves tend
to form their crests consecutively rather than in unison. This causes the
characteristic rounded shape of a price top, interrupted only by individual
(usually short) wave oscillations.

© By the definition of trend, the trends underlying a number of waves also
tend to reverse in unison at price bottoms. At tops, quite the opposite is
true with the various trends being mixed and constantly changing in
direction. It is only after a top is passed that trend action becomes uni
again, causing prices to drop sharply toward the next nest-of-lows.

 

© With a mixed set of trend directions during a price top, time-translation
effects also become complex. The price highs associated with the crest of
one wave in a top can be found translated to the left while the price highs
associated with the crest of another wave in the same top may be translated
to the right.

© If trend could be predicted with great accuracy, these effects would not nee-
essarily increase transaction risk. However, the present state-of-the-art of
cyclic analysis permits only rough estimation of future trend. While this is
extremely helpful, the accuracy available does not provide the price-reversal
prediction accuracy at price tops that is achievable at price bottoms.

© The net result is an increase in transaction risk in the vicinity of price tops.
This affects all selling and short-selling operations.

© A price top is caused by a composite wave consisting of the sum of a

 


rd

"section two

2 ©

WHAT AFFECTS MARKET TOPS continued

wave and all shorter waves. The trend underlying the given wave then af-
fects the shape of the top.

© Price action is constantly forming tops. Some of these will be caused by a
composite wave the longest wave of which is very short. These tops will tend
to be rather uncomplicated due to the small number of waves involved.
Such smaller tops are then a part of the structure of tops formed by com-
posite waves containing waves of longer period. These will be more com-
plex, and will form part of the structure of still larger and more compli-
cated tops.

© Figure 5-1, a weekly chart of Global Marine, is a good example of some of
the points just discussed. To aid in your study of this figure, phasing dia-
monds for the 80-, 40-, and 20-week waves have been added at the bottom
of the chart, Also, the midpoints between some of the pairs of phasing dia-
monds have been marked by triangles at the top of the chart to indicate the
positions of the crests of those waves (in the manner of figure 1-15 in lesson
one).

© Notice the sharp three-diamond lows at grid lines 11, 89, and 173; and no-
tice the broader top formations between these lows. Also notice how the
larger tops are made up of several smaller tops, and notice that as you move
from the longer to the shorter waves, the tops become less complex because
there are fewer waves present to create complexity. This latter fact will be
made use of in the treatment of short-selling transactions.

© For the second 80-week cycle, a line has been drawn from each crest tri-
angle to the associated price high. Notice that high translation for the short-
er waves was generally to the right during the first half of the 80-week cycle
and to the left during the second half.

© During the first 20-week cycle of this second 80-week cycle, the underlying
trend was strongly up and, as we could expect, the price high was translated
considerably to the right of the wave crest. During the second 20-week
cycle, trend was still up, but not so strongly since the 40-week wave has
turned down. And we see that the price high was translated to the right,
but not so much as for the first cycle.

© The trend underlying the first 40-week cycle was strongly up and the price

6

paasasoy siya IV
“ouy ‘ssaad S494] €L61 @ 1BUACOD


ights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al

oer are wrasse

section two
© | SLE

WHAT AFFECTS MARKET TOPS continued

high therefore occurred in the second 20-week cycle rather than the first.
This produced considerable translation to the right.

© At the time of the third 20-week cycle, we could have assessed the trend
underlying the 20-week wave as up (40-week wave direction up; 80-week
wave direction just topped and now down; I direction up because of the
higher low at grid line 89 than at grid line 11 and because of the already
higher prices in the second 80-week cycle than in the first). We would there-
fore have expected the price high for this third 20-week cycle to occur sim-
ultaneously with the price high of its second 10-week cycle and thus pro-
duce high translation to the right. This is indeed what occurred; but now,
by hindsight, we can see that the trend underlying the 20-week wave at that
time was strongly down, as indicated by the Dominaney Envelope center-
line. Therefore, although our conclusion was correct, our reason was wrong.
(The real reason was probably the interaction of some fundamental factor,
and such occurrences will be discussed a little later on in this lesson.)

 

© tis very important for you to realize that because you are dealing with
Probabilities there will be times that your inferences will turn out to be in-
correct. You must be constantly alert for indications that things are not
going as expected.

© During the fourth 20-week cycle the underlying trend was definitely down,
and the high translation to the left that we would expect did occur. (Notice
the reduced amplitude of this 20-week cycle.)

© Study this figure carefully to make sure you understand these translation-
versus-trend relationships. They are very impogtant in cyclic analysis, par-
ticularly during the selection of the trading cycle.

© Before we leave this section, there is one final observation that should be
made. Like all cyclic effects, the differences between price tops and bottoms
represent strong tendencies, but variation from the norm occurs. Thus,
examples can be found of rounded price bottoms and peaked price tops.
These are the exceptions, however, and the causes will be studied later.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.


 

 

vl li

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Al Rights Reserved

LESSON

 

EDGE-BAND AND MID-BAND SHORT SALES

© The basic cyclic differences between price tops and price bottoms result
in an increase in transaction risk for edge-band short transactions over
edge-band long transactions.

 

© The solution is to avoid this added risk by always shorting at mid-band.

© The trading eycle is just as important for short transactions as for long
transactions.

© Once a trading cycle has been selected, then either of the following events
indicates a high probability that the price high associated with the trading
cycle crest has been passed. A valid uptrend line based on the wave just
shorter than the trading cycle must be broken to the downside, or else the
FLD based on the trading cycle must be broken to the downside. (The
phrase to the downside or on the downside means in a downward direction.
Or, when used with upside it means in an upward direction.)

© Shortly after the VTL or FLD break occurs, a minor price rally can normal-
ly be expected. (Note: Because of this rally, the VTL or FLD break should
not be used as an action signal.) The minor price top responsible for the
rally will be less complex than the one associated with the trading cycle, re-
sulting in reduced transaction risk for a short sale.

  

© Ifdesired and applicable, this process of requiring a VTL or FLD break
may be repeated for the minor top to reduce transaction risk even further,

© Figure S-2 shows the price action of Fairchild Camera during a time when a
short sale would have been appropriate. In the figure, the nominal 40-
week wave is assumed to be the trading cycle, and the dashed-line channel
has been drawn accordingly. The mid-band short-selling opportunity can
be clearly seen in the time span between grid lines 60 and 105.

© With the hindsight that this chart allows us, it is easy to see that a short
sale in the price range of $8 to 65 would have been quite profitable. But at
the time this top was forming, such a short sale would have been an edge-
band short transaction, which normally carries a high transaction risk and
is therefore to be avoided in most circumstances.

© However, a mid-band short transaction with a very acceptable transaction
tisk could have been entered during the time between grid lines 100 and 110

—_—_— KK Prope


Saas VHILUT Szeizes
section t TRAINING
COURSEO

EDGE-BAND AND MID-BAND SHORT SALES continued

within the price range of 46 to 50. And this relatively low risk transaction
would nonetheless have produced a quite satisfactory potential percentage.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 
 

“buy 504 SOPEAL EL6T

0 ¢¢ 9—_—$—$—$— __


€

€

 

FCI WEEK ENDING: 27 JUL 1973

DAILY

VOL=4.2

  

|
pM ON cet rae

    

 

Low-n5t,

 

sb 7b eb ob

ido to 120 130 140

ab 4 sb

15 20 25 30 35 40 45 60 65 6D 65 70
DBS,

SHORT-S1L RANGE

 

  
  

‘Copyriat © 1973 Trades Pree oe
‘gas Raed
EDGE.BAND AND MID.BAND SHORT-SALE
S
MBEARO |
ies
> son NOM
o mH HOM
6 80 HOM
6 40 NOM

180 180 170 160 180 Ho

an

 

75 80 65 90 96

 

tf & & 8 2 f # @ @ Ree eB

eo # 8 bok


 

section four

ca

©

THE MID-CHANNEL PAUSE

(© For any given trading cycle the probabilities favor the existence of a mid-
channel pause.

© A mid-channel pause is a significant change in the direction of price move-
ment as prices progress from a trading cycle low to a trading cycle high or a
trading cycle high to a trading cycle low. It occurs approximately midway
between the trading cycle high and the trading cycle low.

© The Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity are responsible for the
mid-channel pause.

© The price top and nest-of-lows associated with a mid-channel pause contain
as a longest wave the wave that has one-fourth the period of the trading
cycle.

© The 18-month wave is the only wave of the nominal model that cannot
cause a mid-channel pause. This is because of the 3 to 1 relationship be-
tween the periods of the 18-month wave and the next longest wave, the
54-month wave.

(© Figure 5.3 illustrates several of the features of price tops, including the
mid-channel pause effect.

@ In this figure, waves A, B, and C are harmonious, synchronous, ideal
waves. Waves A and B are proportional as well, but the wave C amplitude
has been exaggerated to accentuate the mid-channel pause effect.

© Between the 3-diamond nests-of-lows shown, a typical price top is formed.
Wave A is the longest wave in the composite wave responsible for the top
formation. Assume that wave A is the equivalent of a trading cycle for this
example.

© The price rise from point 1 to point 4 would form the basis for a long trans-
action, while the price drop from point S to point 8 would form the basis
for a short transaction.

@ In the course of this top formation, note the following high translation
effects:

1. Price high associated with wave A crest: either at point 4 or point 5,
but not at wave crest.

—— <<< ge


, section four

THE MID-CHANNEL PAUSE continued
2. Price high associated with the first cycle of wave B: translation to the
right.
3. Price high associated with the second cycle of Wave B: translation
to the left.
4, Price high associated with the first cycle of wave C: translation to
the right.
5. Price high associated with the second cycle of wave C: Negligible
translation,
6. Price high associated with the third cycle of wave C: negligible trans-
lation.
7. Price high associated with the fourth cycle of wave C: translation
to the left.
This is typical of price tops as described in section two, with mixed trans-
lation effects taking place as the top is formed.
© Now note the channel or band of constant vertical height ENV, shown
in dotted lines and enclosing all of price action. This is an envelope similar
to the Dominancy Envelope, but based specifically on wave A in this exam-
ple. The composite wave is seen to oscillate broadly from bound to bound
of this envelope. A buy at 1 would be considered an edge-band buy associa-
ted with wave A. A sell at 4 would be considered an edge-band sell associa-
ted with wave A. A short at 5 would be considered an edge-band short
associated with wave A. And a cover-short at 8 would be considered an
edge-band buy associated with wave A.
© Now note the combined effect of waves A, B, and C that produces the price
reversal at 2 and the subsequent decline to 3. This is the expected mid-

channel pause on the upside. Notice particularly the nearly centered loca-
tion of point 3 between points 1 and 4. This is where the name mid-channel

pause comes from.

© Similarly, the price reversal at 6 and the subsequent rise to 7 is the mid-
channel pause on the downside.

© In section three it was indicated that evidence of trading cycle crest formation

ge 2—<—<— _ —_— —_ <_<

 

_paussoy SR TY
‘IUY “SS94g S49PEAT C161 @ 1YBUAdOD


‘Ty

section four:

LESSON

 

©

THE MID-CHANNEL PAUSE continued

is required betore shorting, but that the VTL or FLD break producing
this evidence should not be used as an action signal. Figure 5-3 shows the
reason for this admonition. The line marked FLDA is an FLD based on
wave A. This is broken to the downside at 9 providing evidence that the
price high associated with the crest of wave A has passed. But if this were
used as an action signal to short, transaction entry would take place just
prior to the price rally due to the mid-channel pause.

© In figure 5-3, the price tops formed between points 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 are due
to the mid-channel pause effect. These tops will have their own structure
owing to shorter period waves not shown in this example. Alll of the effects
discussed for the top between points 1 and 8 will be repeated in the tops at
2 and 7 with two significant differences:

 

1. The tops will form and be completed on a time scale one-fourth as
~ long.

2. The tops will be less complex since fewer wave components are
involved.

© As stated earlier, wave C is shown with greater than proportional ampli-
tude in figure 5-3 in order to show the mid-channel pause clearly. Many in-
stances in actual price movement will show the same pronounced mid-
channel pause, implying that the Principle of Variation is in operation at
the time and causing non-proportional amplitudes. At other times, the mid-
channel pause may be scarcely distinguishable. In making use of the con-
cept of the mid-channel pause, the analyst should keep in mind the wide
variations possible in extent and nature of the effect.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved


THE MID-CHANNEL PAUSE consinued
@ FIGuRE 5-3 THE MID-CHANNEL PAUSE EFFECT

SS. =cOMPo sire
<< WAVE (A+B+C)

173 Traders Press, Inc

 

 

CycliTee Services ®

 

Poge 14


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

 

., Section five
© [ Hl

LESSON

SPECIAL IDIOSYNCRACIES OF SHORT SALES continued

© Short-selling is subject to several inconveniences that must be taken into
consideration during transaction planning. These make short-selling less.
desirable than long transactions, but do not negate the practical need for
the shorting process.

© Stocks cannot be sold short until a 1/8th-dollar up-tick in price occurs,

© The holder of a short position in stocks must pay (to the owner of the stock
that was borrowed for the short sale) any dividends declared by the issuing
company during the transaction.

©@ To generate a given percentage capital gain, prices must move down more

ina short transaction than they must move up in a long transaction. For an
illustration of this point, consider the following example:

Long Situation
Buy price a
Sell price 38
Gross potential percentage
(38-27) x100 - 29.63%
Short Situation
Sell-short price 35,
Cover-short price 2

Gross potential percentage

(35-27) 100 = 22.86%

In this example, the buy and sell prices are exactly the same. Yet the gross
potential percentage realized on invested capital is 29.63% for the long
transaction and only 22.86% for the short transaction.

@ Iti possible to lose more than the initially invested capital in a short trans-
action but not in a long transaction.

$$$ rrge 15s


CYCLITEC
| SERVICES
(TRAINING
Ll COUASEO

rd

 
  

SPECIAL IDIOSYNCRACIES OF SHORT SALES continued
For example, suppose a stock is bought at 10.0 and eventually becomes
worthless. The loss is then 100% of the initial investment (if the purchase
is not made on margin).

But if the same stock were sold short at 10.0 and prices subsequently rose
to 60.0, the loss would be 500% of the initially invested capital (again as-
suming an unmargined transaction).
This is not really a practical concern for the cyclic analyst since stop-
loss orders would normally limit risk potential far below levels mentioned
in this example. Nevertheless, it is well to be aware of such factors and risks.
© Stock is not always available to be borrowed when a short transaction is
desired.
© In the commodity markets, no up-tick is presently required in order to
short, no dividends must be paid, and there is no problem of unavailability.
In general, the process of short-selling is simpler for commodities than it
is for stocks.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

0 16—$ $$ a $$

poaasoy sur IV

-ouy ‘ssang S19pB] G61 @ WSIKGOD

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Al Rights Reserved

LESSON

section six
©

HOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES

© The basic cyclic principles state that all price movements of all negotiable
equities consist of the sum of more or less the same component price waves.

@ In spite of this, fundamental factors do affect price movement. And the
effects can be important in both long and short transactions.

© The effect of fundamental events is to alter the amplitude of one or more
price waves.

@ Wave periods and phases are not altered by fundamental events, hence
transaction timing decisions remain relatively uninfluenced.

@ Three kinds of fundamental interaction are known:

1. Sudden, dramatic, usually unpleasant, changes of lasting impact in
a publicly owned company that produce a sudden, one-sided increase
in volume interest in the company’s equities. As a result, an orderly
market in the equities cannot be maintained and there is a sudden
drastic price change. In these cases, trading in the stock is often halt-
ed on organized exchanges. If and when trading is resumed, it may
take place at a drastically altered price.

Wave action continues after the resumption of trading but cannot be
used to account for the sudden large change in price.

2. An unexpected news release or development, often favorable, but of
a more minor nature than that described for type 1. The news or de-
velopment may apply to a single company or may be national or inter-
national in scope. For an affected company’s equity price, the result
is a short, sharp increase in the amplitude of one or several adjacent,
period price waves, usually with periods of the order of 5, 10, or 20
days. This amplitude increase reverts back to normal as quickly as the
increase came about.

3. A fundamental event, rumor, or psychological force, usually favor-
able, which causes a more gradual increase in volume interest in an
equity. This results in a longer term, steady build-up in amplitude of
‘most or all of the waves in a cyclic model. Price movement, which is
the sum of these waves with proportionally increasing amplitudes,
shows development of a steep, usually upward, pseudo trend. This is a

 

Page mmm

 


LESSON

 

HOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES continued

trend-like action in price movement caused only by increasing com-
ponent wave amplitudes; wave periods, and phases do not change.

{As volume interest subsides, wave amplitudes also decrease, leading
toa steep pseudo trend in the opposite direction, usually downward.

© The skilled cyclic analyst can make good use of pseudo trend, but the aver-
age practitioner is well advised to avoid such situations.

@ Figure 5-4, a weekly chart for Illustrated World Encyclopedia as of 29 June
1973, shows a type one fundamental interaction with stock prices. On Fri-
day, 21 April 1972 (the last day of the week that is located on grid line 117),
the stock price dropped sharply (by 10%) to close at 12-1/2, the low for the
week. On the following Monday, 24 April, the American Stock Exchange
did not allow trading in the issue pending “clarification of news” concern-
ing the company. On Tuesday, 25 April, an article appeared in The Wall
Street Journal stating that criminal charges had been brought against three
officials of the company.

  

© When the stock began trading again some seventeen weeks later (after a
complex legal battle and the resignation of the president of the company),
prices were in the 4-1/2 to 7 range and moved downward thereafter.

@ Figure 5-5, a daily chart for Litton Industries as of 31 March 1972, illus-
trates the type two fundamental interaction. The price drop between grid
lines 144 and 147 was in response to the news that the government had di
allowed $450 million in contract changes claimed by Litton’s ship building
division.

  

© The fundamental interaction shown in figure 5-5 affected only a single com-
pany and the effect was in the downward direction. Figure 5-6 illustrates
another type two fundamental interaction, but this time of national import-
ance and with an effect in the upward direction.

© The chart in figure 5-6 is a daily plot of the Dow Jones Industrial Average
as of 31 December 1971. The price jump between grid lines 39 and 42 is in
response to the president's August 1971 announcement of the Phase 1 eco-
nomic controls.

@ A type three fundamental interaction is shown in figure 5-7, a weekly chart

Page 1

 

i
a

9
3
:
e
3
3
i
e
a
>
g

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Al Rights Reserved

section six.

HOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES continued

for Homestake Mining (a gold mining company) as of 29 June 1973. In this
instance, several fundamental factors combined to produce the strong
pseudo uptrend in this gold stock: the U.S. removal of the fixed price for
gold, the world monetary crisis, and the impending dollar devaluation.

 

© Study these four figures in conjunction with the foregoing discussion of the
three types of fundamental interaction so that you can quickly recognize
each type by the stock chart pattern that it produces.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

LESSON


 

 

Seal ili

           

 


 

 

 

th mb th ab do alo ado do ado do do clo do

: antl a illu {LALAUCL cull

 

13

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

"<b 2b 3b 4b sb gb 7b eb 8d ado sto ido ago ado ado ude ado ado ado ee

 

 

 

 

th th sb ob sb ch ob ch sh sdo fo ado 140 140 140 do tte do tbo ko
bo De ew ee we we we we es
of

 

 


€ € €
HM WEEK ENDING: 29 JUN 1973 WEEKLY VOL=2.8

 

 

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

section seven

LESSON

©

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE

© In this and workshops to follow, progressively less detail on individual anal-
ysis steps will be provided. Correct results will be shown in all instances,
and you should spend considerable time at first reconciling any differences
between your own analyses and the ones presented.

@ Assume each situation is under study for the first time and that the results
of other analyses for the equity under consideration are not available. This
is good procedure at all times because a fresh analytical viewpoint is as-
sured and the long-term effects of the Principle of Variation are avoided.

© Figures 5-8, 5-9, and 5-10 are, respectively, an analysis form, a weekly chart
of LTR as of 29 December 1972, and a daily chart of LTR as of 29 Decem-
ber 1972. Remove these from the lesson and conduct both a VRS and an RS
analysis (for the sake of experience) on this stock. Summarize your conclus-
ions before comparing them with the results described below. Remember,
the question you are attempting to answer is: “Should a CCA be conducted
in this issue at this time?” If so, you should also know whether it is a long
or a short transaction that makes additonal effort worthwhile, and you
should know the approximate goals of the transaction.

© Rapid analysis should have isolated the following facts:

1, 18-month (80 week) lows exist at grid line 122 and between grid lines
43 and 56.

2. The pre-dominant wave is the nominal 9-month (40 week) wave (in
spite of the near absence of Dominancy Envelope centerline fluctua-
tions between grid lines SO and 105).

3. 2Lis sharply up from grid line $0 through grid line 122. This observa-
tion is based on an overshot 80-week upside FLD projection, 80-week
high translation to the right, an undershot 80-week downside FLD
projection, and the very late 80-week FLD break on the downside (all
between grid lines 50 and 122),

4, Between grid lines 122 and 179, ¥L sharply reversed to the down-
side,

Did you catch this important point in your analysis? Let's discuss it
briefly.


rd

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued

The trend underlying the 9-month wave consists of the sum of 3L
(trend underlying the 18-month wave) and the 18-month wave. As
price rises from the 18-month nest-of-lows at grid line 122 to the price
high associated with the 9-month wave at grid line 142, the 18-month
wave is sharply up. This coupled with a 3L that is assumed to be up
should provide a very strong uptrend underlying the 9-month wave.
Thus, the 9-month FLD projection upside should be overshot—but
instead it was considerably undershot. Since the direction of the 18-
month wave is known beyond doubt, this could only have been caused
by 3L reversing to the downside in this time region.

5. If the conclusion of item 4 is valid, what should then be expected for
the following 9-month FLD downside projection (between grid lines
142 and 169)?

During this time period the 18-month wave is still up. This coupled
with a EL that is down should result in flat trend underlying the 9-
month wave. Thus, an FLD projection based on this wave should be
met. This is confirmed by actual price action quite precisely.

‘There are now two bits of evidence, each strong, confirming ¥L direc-
tion as down as of 29 December 1972.

(Note: You may have noticed that the trend conditions here are the
same as they were for the previous 9-month FLD upside projection;
and if the underlying trend was flat there, the upside objective should
have been met rather than undershot. One possible explanation for
the fact that the objective was undershot would be that the very sharp
price drop at grid lines 120-122 was due to some fundamental inter-
action and that the undisturbed cyclic price drop would not have been
so great and therefore would not have produced such a high upside
price objective. But it is very important to realize that while this ex-
planation might satisfy us for this anomaly in this instance, there will
be other instances in which an anomaly exists for which we cannnt
find a satisfactory explanation. We must recognize that because of the
probabilistic nature of the cyclic phenomenon and of our tools and
techniques, every situation will not be clean and clear cut. Valuable

 

Page 25.

 

paasasoy Suara ITV
“uy “359g S49PEA] ELEL @ WYdEUKdOD


@ my
section seven
S '

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued

and useful information is nevertheless obtainable, and an analysis
need not be abandoned because of an unexplained anomaly.)

6. Price and time are right for the price low at grid line 169 to have been
a 9-month low. This is confirmed by VTL breaks to the upside be-
‘tween grid lines 169 and 176,

7. The cyclic state of this issue on December 29, 1972 is: 10 weeks along
on the second 9-month cycle of the 18-month wave — with trend un-
derlying the 18-month wave being sharply down.

8. This leads to the question: “How much higher is the present rally
likely to go from the 9-month low at 169:

  

Note: By now you should be interchanging days, weeks, and months
. of wave period freely in your mind. If not, stop right now and
memorize the following simplified nominal model periods:

a, T-18M (trend underlying the 18-month wave) is 3L, which is down
b. T-9M is ¥L (down) plus 18-month (down), which is down

Months Weeks Days
18. ve 80
Dee. 40
20
10........ 80
4 S........ 40
3 20
E z 10
gE
ed 5
23 To answer the question posed, study the trend situation at grid line
ae 169.
2
:
&

¢. T-20W is ZL (down) plus 18-month (down) plus 9-month (up),
which is down

 

Page 2—


 

LESSON

Page 27.

section seven

Luu

 

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued

10.

d. T-10W is ¥L (down) plus 18-month (down) plus 9-month (up)
plus 20-week (up), which is flat.

Therefore, the 10-week upward FLD projection should be met, and
the upward projections for all longer waves should be undershot. Ac-
cordingly, the expectation is for the current 9-month price high to be
translated to the left and to occur in association with the first 20-week
wave crest in the 9-month cycle.

Further, at now time (grid line 179) prices are coming into a 10-week
nest-of-lows, and the longest wave that has a flat underlying trend is

the 20-day one. (Work this out for yourself if you haven’t already done

0). Therefore, with prices moving down for the last three weeks and

now coming into a 10-week nest-of-lows, it is expected that only a 20-

day FLD projection will be met on the upside before this 10-week cycle J
tops out. Since a 20-day price high could certainly not be expected to

reach or exceed the recent price high of about 53, the implication is

that this price high at grid line 176 is not only associated with a 10-

week wave crest, but also with the crests of the 20-week and 9-month

waves as well!

). The conclusion to be drawn is that this stock must not be bought at

this time, and may be a very worthwhile short in the near future. Fur-
thermore, this shorting opportuniy could come as early as the price
high associated with the next 20-day wave crest.

 

The next queston is: “How far are prices likely to go down in the ex-
pected move?” This price decline would be driven by Land the 18-
month wave. The 18-month FLD was probably broken (downside) by
the price lows around grid line 169. This would lead to a downside pro-
jection in the region of 30 — which should be overshot due to 3L.
Present price is about 47, so a 17 point drop is anticipated. This would
be a 36% move. There is no longer any doubt that LTR should be sub-
jected toa CCA in expectation of an excellent short sale in the very
near future.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

paasasoy siya
“buy "ssaug S49pEAL E161 @ WBLAKdO)

 


 

ight © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.
‘Al Rights Reserved

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (WEEKLY)

  

 

   

TRANSACTION ANALYSIS FORM

   

 

 
 

 

   
  

 

    

 

 

TICKER
DATE svn.
FOR ‘CONTRACT
COMMODITIES: V* ——. MONTH

 

  
 

BUY SITUATION

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

 
  

 

    

 

 

 

NOMINAL | PERIODOGRAM COMMENTS
BL % GROSS
w w
w w
LC w w
w w
w w
w w
w w
w w
w w 70
INITIAL GYCLIC MODEL (DAILY)
NOwIWAL | PeRIoD0GRAM COMMENTS
o ° ;
2 2 FOR COMMODITIES
° °
° D
B D SELL STUATION
D o coven is
o ° SELL SHOnT | PR | ¥ GROSS
I o D 2
3
CURRENT cvCLIG MODEL 3
WowiwAL | AGTUAL | PHASE — [STATUS] FLO NUMBER 3
SL weeEKs [DAYS :
TeM7eNT 7
SMW) a
708 :
800, 70.
200
PR XSL
200 se
700
50 100 x (SS -C)
Nana 65-0)
COMMENTS AND NOTES —
100 (85 - xv
sw
+ Fon coumonmies
V IS VALUE OF teovE
th iswancinneournee
ALL PRICES EXPRESSED W CENTS

 

 

FIGURE 5-8

  
 
    
  
 

 

   

 

Page 28


 

 


€ € €

LTR WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 DAILY VOL=6.2

 

7 all me

 

 


 

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO

© You have arrived at the conclusion that a profitable short transaction may
be near in LTR, so a CCA is required. Please do this now before consulting
the following discussion.

© Figures 5-11 and 5-12 show the completed CCA. The phasing diamonds
have been numbered in order of their placement to aid you in comparing
your results with those shown. Study these figures and the following mater-
ial thoroughly until you understand the rationale behind the analysis decis-
ions made before continuing with the discussion of the information content.

© The initial cyclic models and current cyclic model for figures 5-11 and 5-12
are as follows:

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (WEEKLY)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOMINAL [PERIODOGRAM ‘COMMENTS
BL Strong down
go W ey WI Medium |
> __W| ft WI Strong
wl Use Ww Weak
Ww f 24 W) Weak
c Ww ie WI Weak
io W 8 W| Strong
Ww Ww
Ww Ww

 

 

 

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL (DAILY)

NOMINAL [PERIODOGRAM COMMENTS
fs2_ 0

 

 

 

 

 

 

ua D Strom:

of Use D Weak |
20D] 20D Very Strang
io; yD weak

5 D

D D

 

 

 

 

 

 

ge tt.


 

 

 

TU Seevices
| section eight TRAINING
i LITT coursed

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL

INOMINAL ACTUAL | PHASE _[STATUS[ FLD NUMBER

EL + [weeks | DAYS
TeM(7ew) [82.5 57W 4 42.2.

SMB) | 41 we 13W f ab

20W 20. ow i3w [7 ILD

80D |ioswi72.to)| 930 ww |G

40D B40 50D ws

20D 24.5D 25D a

10D 12.40 Joo |
[50 oD 3.90 |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

© The weekly FPA, shown in figure 5-11, was straightforward with the only
difficulties experienced at the 18-month low between grid lines 40 and 60,
and the 9-month low between 165 and 175.

© The 18-month possibles resolved normally (to grid line 43) as shorter period
waves were phased. But the 9-month low would have been placed at grid
line 169 during phasing of the weekly chart. It was only after the daily chart
was phased that this placement was changed to the unusual position at grid-
line 166.

© The daily chart, shown in figure 5-12, offered no difficulties except between
grid lines 80 and 142, Again, phasing of shorter period waves leads to
choice of the 48.9-day wave troughs at grid lines 86 and 129 (as opposed to
the possibles at 106 and 142). This choice was also confirmed by the fluc-
tuations of the Dominancy Envelope centerline, leading to the suspicion
that the sharp price declines between grid lines 99 and 106 and grid lines
135 and 142 were due to fundamental interaction in the form of unusually
heavy selling.

© This situation in the daily chart leads to revision of the weekly phasing to

match (the move of the three-diamond nest-of-lows from an original loca-
tion at grid line 169 to the location shown at 166).

© The daily portion of the current cyclic model includes a situation that is
fairly common and warrants somecomment. The 72.1-day wave is shown as

POE

poasasoy s1uR IV

“uy ‘ssoug Ss9pedy E161 @ 1YBKdo)


@

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

HHT aa

section eight
G

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued

93 days along with a bottoming status. The question arises of how long such
a wave should be carried with an overdue phase designation if no proof of
the expected trough is forthcoming. A good rule of thumb for these situ-
ations is that if proof of a trough has not been obtained by the time the
trough of the next shorter wave is due, then it should be assumed that a
trough of the wave did occur at a time given by adding the average period
of the wave to the time of the last known trough. The phase reference is
then shifted to this new trough location, and the wave status is adjusted
accordingly

In the example of figure 5-12 this rule of thumb would be implemented as
follows. Suppose that proof of the 72.1-day wave trough continued to elude
us until the phase was shown as 108 days along (72 days plus one-half of 72
days). At that time we would arbitrarily locate a phasing diamond for the
72.1-day wave at grid line 158 (72 days from the last known trough) and rec-
cord the phase as 36 days along. The wave status would then be shown as
topping

@ Now direct your attention back to figure 5-11. Notice the two broad arrows
marked with a dollar sign and with a wave period. These are the standard
symbols for FLD price projections. The width of the arrow is a reminder
that these projections are indicative, but not precise. Such symbols are nor-
mally placed directly below or above the break involved. The wave period
associated with the projection is noted below the arrow for downside projec-
tions and above the arrow for upside projections. The small arrow shown
with the symbol indicates the best available estimate as to whether the pro-
jection is likely to be undershot, met, or overshot, based upon trend.

 
 

@ The FLD projections shown in figure 5-1] are derived using a refinement

that needs introduction,

The exact point at which an FLD break occurs, and therefore the value of
the FLD price projection itself, can be considerably infuenced by steep
Price moves due to short period waves. To avoid this effect, note the fluctu-
ations of both the price motion and the FLD near the time of a break and
visually smooth these out. Base the FLD price projection on the intersection.
of the smoothed price and FLD movements. Realize, however, that the
price and FLD fluctuations smoothed must be due to waves that are consid-
erably shorter than the wave on which the FLD is based.


LESSON

 

CYCLITES >

      

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued

Also, it is important to note that this technique should be used only with
past-time FLD breaks. When FLD’s are used as future-time action signals,
true price movements and FLD movements must be used.

paasasoy s9y3re IV

-auy ‘ssoag saapesy E161 @ wyBIAKdOD

© Now let’s study the information content of the CCA.

© The weekly chart in figure 5-11 shows a 41.2-week downside FLD projec-
tion which should have been met and has been. Although the weekly chart
does not show a subsequent 41.2-week FLD break to the upside, the daily
chart (figure 5-12) does, Therefore, the downside 41.2-week FLD projection
can be considered retired.

© The 82.5-week downside projection to a price of 30 is still outstanding in
spite of the two breaks of this FLD [one upward and one downward] which
immediately followed the break that gave the projection. This is an import-
ant point and warrants explanation. >

‘The downward break near the low of the first 9-month cycle in the 18-
month wave is to be expected if ¥L is hard down, and this break produced
the downside price projection. But the subsequent break to the upside
(about grid line 176) followed by another break to the downside the next
week are obviously caused by price movement driven by much shorter
waves. The cause and meaning of such multiple FLD breaks will be dis-
cussed in another lesson. In the meantime, you must learn to ignore those
FLD breaks which do not impart information concerning the wave on
which the FLD is based.

© In figure 5-11 it is seen that the only two FLD’s that were in cascade pat-
tern coming out of the 9-month nest-of-lows were the 41.2-week, and 20.6-
week ones. The 82.5-week FLD was rising, and unlikely to be broken to the
upside during the subsequent up move. These considerations, plus the fact
that the 41.2-week FLD is unlikely to be broken in such a way as to pro-
duce a very high upward price projection, confirm the impression derived
earlier that this 9-month price high will be translated left, and may have
already been seen.

 

© Now turn your attention to figure 5-12. Here a 41.2-week upward FLD
price projection is shown to a price of about 60-1/2. Trend considerations
indicate this projection will not be met in this 9-month move.


8, Ine,

Rights Reserved

 

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Pres

fight

Ty

  

a

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued

© The 48.9-day FLD has been broken to the downside providing a projection
toa price of about 42-3/4, which should be overshot. If met or overshot, the
20.6-week FLD will also be broken to the downside, calling for a continuing
move to a price of about 39. These observations confirm the VRS-RS im-
pressions that very near future price drops are expected, in spite of the im-
minence of a rally out of the 10-week nest-of-lows.

@ All FLD’s based on waves shorter than 48.9 days have been omitted from
figure 5-12 for the sake of clarity. It is to be noted that these short wave
FLD’s are in cascade position to the upside, but that longer ones (notably
the 18-month and 10.3-week FLD’s) are rising and unlikely to be broken
by any price move up from the expected 10-week nest-of-lows. This obser-
vation again confirms the likelihood of lower prices in the immediate
future,

@ Tosum up: Minor strength is expected from the 10-week nest-of-lows,
which should fail quickly. Objectives to the downside exist at 42-3/4, 39 and
30, with the probabilities strongly favoring overshoot. Transaction risk ap-
pears slight. This stock should be considered for a short sale with a 17 dol-
lar (36%) expected profit,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

—_— Sige ts


 

LTR WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 WEEKLY VOL=2.9

FiouRE 511
LTR WEEKLY cca | ©

     

Coppi © 197) Tar Pro
At Rigns Heer

e502
aw

6 6 movin

© 9 9 WO Do.

Q
%
9
®

oon

to 2 sb 4d 6d 50 70 8D 9d 100 110 1do 190 140 i8o 160 140 ido 160 200

IS
18

5 10 18 20 25 30 35 40 45 (60 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 @0 95
MEEKS

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

“CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL
ROMNAT] ACTUAL
3

 

 

[TA
i
wav |

 

Fb NOME
L. WEEKS,
eMaN

22.2
EXE)
2007

tT 21.6
20.00 m3
800. x 1
400 x

200

100-

 

 

 

AYE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

All Rights Reserved

Copyright

 

section nine

  

LESSON

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE

© ACCA has confirmed that LTR is a potential short candidate as of 29 De-
cember 1972.

© The transaction analysis must now be completed. Please do this by deter-
mining the buy objective, the trading cycle, the stop-loss level, the action
signal, the minimum sell price, the PR ratio, the gross potential, and the
expected transaction time, Complete these items as workshop unit number
three before reading further.

© The potential-risk ratio and percentage potential picture is as presented in the
following table and discussion:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

[SELL SITUATION
cover 30 [QE 53%
SELL SHORT [ PR_| % GROSS
45.583, 2 SHG
47.53) 3_| 36.88
48.700 4 38.46
49.474 5 | 38.37
50.036 6 [40.04
50.435 7_| 51
50.778 8 | 40.42
51.038, 9 | 422

[51.250 [10 | 41.4e

PR x SL) +C
SSS PRET

100 x (85 - ©)
ce 3

 

 

 

© The ultimate transaction objective is the 18-month FLD projection toa
price of 30.

@ The transaction is predicated on the assumption that the price high at

3-1/4 (grid line 176 on the weekly chart) is the right translated high assoc-
iated with the last 10-week wave crest, and is the left translated high

$$ rte x


LESSON

—— Page 39.

 

section nine

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE continued

associated with the present 20-week and 9-month waves as well. Thus, the 9-
month wave becomes the trading cycle, and the stop-loss level is fixed at
53-3/8.

© We expect to sell short during the price rally from the 10-week nest-of-lows
that is now due. From the transaction analysis tabulation a minimum sell-
short price must be selected. There are two key analysis results influencing
this selection:

1. The recent downside break of the 48.9-day FLD implying a price
move to about 42-3/4 before the 10.3-week nest-of-lows is complete

 

2. The imminence of a break of the 20.6-week FLD, implying a price
move to the vicinity of 39 before the 10.3-week nest-of-lows is com-
plete.

© Under such circumstances it is quite unlikely that price rallies caused by
short-period waves will result in price moves to the 49 to 50 range before.
dropping lower. This eliminates any thought of PR ratios of 5 to 10.

© On the other hand, prices of 47 to 48 in the near future are definitely pos-
sible. Thus a sell-short order at 47-1/2 or higher could be placed with
strong chances of transaction entry success.

© Now for the 1/8 uptick restrictions on shorts. While the 47-1/2 order should
definitely be placed, some lower but still acceptable price should be in
mind in case the 47-1/2 order cannot be executed. In case price should slip
quickly without the necessary up-tick — what is the very lowest price one
would permit for the transaction entry? The choice in this case must be
somewhat arbitrary, but would certainly be greater than 45.583 which
provides a PR ratio of only 2.0. A price of 46 would be a reasonable choice,
resulting in a PR ratio of 2.17 with a percentage potential of 34.78.

© I is interesting to note that no really effective action signal can be chosen
{for this transaction. This is fairly typical of short selling and tends to come
about because of the mid-band nature of low risk shorts (at mid-band pri
es tend to move rapidly and steeply, permitting little chance for VTL's to
form).

 

 

poasasoy syd LV

“ony ‘sng H9pRAL, EL6T O WACO)


LESSON

    

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE continued
@ The candidate transaction can now be summarized as follows:

1. Cover Order: Enter at 30
2. Stop-Loss Level: Enter at 53-3/8
3. Action Signal: Order to sell short at 47-1/2 or high-

er if prices strengthen quickly, or to
sell-short at 46 or higher if prices
weaken quickly.

 

4, Minimum Sell Price: 46

5. Expected PR Ratio: 2.17 to 2.98

6. Expected Gross Potential: 34.78% to 36.84%
@ 7. Trading Cycle: 41.2-week wave

8. Expected Transaction Time: 28 weeks (41.2 less 13 weeks along)

© The following action of LTR is shown in figure 5-13, The transaction would
have been entered the following week at 47-1/2 (or better), and the price
objective was met 13 weeks later.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Alll Rights Reserved

PURE 4m—

 


3.3

(OL:

RIL TT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

bas

 

 

NG: a APR
fect:

K ENDI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


SUMMARY


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

mT fr

 

 

© Cyclic concepts permit a wholly technical approach to trading and invest-
ing in all kinds of negotiable equities. These concepts are equally adapt-
able to long, intermediate, and short-term transactions.

© The methods and techniques derived from cyclic concepts permit probabil-
istic evaluation of potential transactions and of transactions in progress.

© The process of cyclic analysis is based upon eight basic Principles. These
are the Principle of Commonality, Cyclicality, Summation, Harmonicity,
Synchronicity, Proportionality, Nominality, and Variation.

© These Principles describe the interrelationship of price waves of which all
price movement is composed. Such price waves are characterized by three
parameters; Amplitude (or size), Period (or length), and Phase (or the place-
ment of the wave in time).

© The basic cyclic principles state that all negotiable equity price movements
consist of a sum of price waves; that such waves tend to have harmonically
related periods; that wave troughs tend to occur simultaneously; that a
specific set of harmonic waves is peculiar to price movements; and that
individual equity wave characteristics vary with time about a long-term
norm,

© A cyclic model is a tabulation of some of the characteristics of price waves.
A useful simplified nominal model consists of waves of periods 18 years, 9
years, 54 months, 18 months, 9 months, 20 weeks, 80 days, 40 days, 20 days,
10 days, and 5 days.

© Cyclic concepts provide a particularly useful definition of trend. A different
trend exists underlying each wave of a cyclic model, and each trend consists
of the sum of all waves longer than the wave that the trend underlies. Both
up and down trends can be in existence at the same time.

© The cyclic definition of trend results in the ability to classify trend lines.
Such trend lines are known as valid trend lines, or VTL’s, VTL’s are con-
structed according to specific rules. They always connect consecutive price
lows or highs associated with the troughs or crests of a specific wave. They
are drawn so as not to cut through (or intersect) price bars. And a valid
downtrend line is not drawn from price highs between which there is a
trough of a wave longer than the wave on which the VTLis based.

ge


 

rt

 

LESSON T

 

summary

continued

© VTL’s may be used to identify price highs or lows associated with crests or
troughs of specific waves. When prices break up through a valid downtrend
line the probabilities favor that the lowest price low within a span of past
time equal to one period of the wave next longer than the VTL wave is as-
sociated with a trough of this next longer wave. Similarly, when prices
break down through a valid uptrend line, the probabilities favor that the
highest price high within a span of past time equal to one period of the wave
next longer than the VTL wave is associated with a crest of this next longer
wave.

© There is a future line of demarcation, or FLD, associated with each wave
of a cyclic model. FLD'’s are constructed by shifting price values forward
by one-half the period of a wave plus one. This shift value is called the FLD
number.

© FLD’s may also be used to help locate price highs or lows associated with
wave crests or troughs. When an FLD based on a given wave is broken by
prices, the probabilities favor that the highest price high or lowest price low
within a span of past time equal to the FLD number is associated with a
ctest or a trough (respectively) of the wave on which the FLD is based.

© FLD’s are the principal means by which the extent of future price
can be estimated. When an FLD is broken by prices, prices have moved ap-
proximately one-half as far as that wave is likely to carry them. The likeli-
hood of such an FLD price objective being undershot, met, or overshot is
influenced by whether the trend underlying the wave on which the FLD is
based is opposed to, flat, or in the direction of (respectively) the FLD
projection.

@ FLD’s may be drawn and used in both past and future time on the chart.
When drawn in future time, both single FLD shape and the patterns form-
ed by multiple FLD's have utility in analysis processes.

@ When an FLD is moving down in future time, prices tend to be pushed up
at that time by the wave on which the FLD is based. When an FLD is mov-
ing up in future time, prices tend to be pushed down at that time by the
wave on which the FLD is based. When an FLD forms a trough in future
time, prices tend to form a top at that time. When an FLD forms a crest
in future time, prices tend to form a low at that time.

Page 44.

 

paaiosay sa tv

“ou ‘ssadq S49 BAL CL6T @ MBUAGOD,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
PrP BTA Rights Reserved

SERVICE.
TRAINING
CGURSEO

CYCLITEE (TTT)
I

© When prices are moving down, some FLD’s will be above prices. The more
FLD’s that are above prices, the more vulnerable prices are to an upward
reversal. When prices are moving up, some FLD’s will be below prices. The
more FLD’s that are below prices, the more vulnerable prices are to a down-
ward reversal. This is known as the magnet effect.

@ An FLD cascade is likely to occur when a price break of a single FLD im-
plies that another FLD will be broken, etc. FLD cascade formations occur

when FLD's are sloping steeply, are more-or-less parallel to each other,
and rather evenly spaced.

@ A congestion of FLD’s in a horizontal region is called a pause zone, or

PZ. P2's represent price regions where prices are likely to pause or turn
around.

© Cyclic concepts can be used to set up logical price objectives and stop-loss
levels. Once this is done, both profit potential (potential) and loss risk (risk)
can be calculated. The ratio of potential to risk (or potential divided by

tisk) is called the PR ratio and is an important factor in transaction eval-
uation.

© Potential percentage is potential expressed as a percentage of the transac-

tion entry price. It is found by multiplying potential by 100 and dividing by
the transaction entry price.

@ The concepts of PR ratio and potential percentage permit transaction entry
price values to be investigated as to desirability and acceptability. The var-
ious quantities involved are related by simple relationships, as follows:

1B =PRxSI)+S
TPR ET

— PRxSL)+C
2. SS = "PR TT

 

LESSON


 

summary

continued

LESSON

  

 

5, % =100xS - B)
ne
6% = Wass. 0
where:

B = buy price

5 =sell price

 

SL = stop-loss price
PR= potential/risk ratio
‘SS = sell-short price

C = cover short price

% = potential percentage

© A current cyclic model is a tabulation of the characteristics of the price
waves that sum to form price movement. It is constructed as follows: First,
an initial cyclic model is formed. This is used as a guide in preparing a
phasing analysis. The information required for a current cyclic model is,
then extracted from the phasing analysis.

© An initial cyclic model is prepared using wave period estimates from the
nominal cyclic model and from a Periodogram. A Periodogram is a set of
vertical lines, each line representing a single wave. For each line, the hori-
zontal position of the line represents the wave period and the height of the
line represents the wave amplitude. A Periodogram is interpreted using the
Principles of Nominality and Harmonicity. Individual lines in a price-
movement Petiodogram are not of importance. It is the shape formed by
groups of such lines that denote the presence or absence of a given wave in
price movement.

© A phasing analysis (or formal phasing analysis, or FPA) is the means by
which an intial cyclic model is converted into the more accurate wave peri-
od and phase estimates needed in a current cyclic model. An FPA is a

 

Page 46.

ponsasoy swydra VY

“uy ‘ssaug SUOPEAL E161 @ WBUAdO)


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

All Rights Reserved

LESSON

summary 5

best attempt to estimate the time positions of all of the troughs of all of the
waves of which the price movement under analysis is composed.

© A Dominancy Envelope contains all (or most) of price movement. Its cen-

terline tends to fluctuate in sympathy with the wave just longer than the
longest wave contained by the envelope. The former is called the pre-
dominant wave, while the latter is known as the dominant wave. The Dom-
inancy Envelope and its centerline are said to act as a period-divider, since
price movement is effectively separated into two (simpler) composite waves.
In the FPA process, the Dominancy Envelope and its centerline function as
allink, or bridge, between the initial cyclic model and price movement.

 

© Inthe FPA process, FLD’s and VTL’s are used in past time to help locate
price highs and lows associated with given wave crests and troughs.

@ FPA takes place in three steps: entry, extension, and completion.

© FPA entry can be effected by observing the Dominancy Envelope centerline
fluctuations; by direct comparison of initial cyclic model period estimates
with Dominancy Envelope centerline fluctuations or price movement; and
by locating troughs of long waves using FLD’s and VTL's in past time.

© FPA extension is an ordered procedure. Shorter wave troughs are placed
(by Synchronicity) in the same time positions located for longer waves. This
is called a first-step extension. Second-step extension consists of using an
augmented measuring strip to locate troughs of the next shorter wave be-
tween adjacent troughs of the wave just phased. In third-step extension, the
augmented measuring strip is used to search for troughs of the next shorter
wave that are to the right or left of single troughs of the wave just phased.
Fourth step extension is accomplished by direct comparison of the wave
period on an augmented measuring strip with raw price data.

(An augmented measuring strip is one which starts with initial eyclie mod-
el indications of period on it, and picks up additional markings as new pe-
riod samples are located.)

© FPA completion proceeds from a fully-phased short-period wave to suc-
cessively longer waves. The process consists of filling phasing gaps by
application of the Principle of Harmonicity.

 

rect

© FPA information extraction begins with averaging the wave-period samples

—.— Kee 17


 

LESSON

Page 48.

summary

continued

 

for each wave. The easiest way to do this is to note the difference between
the grid-line numbers for the two extreme phasing diamonds of a given
wave. This difference is then divided by the number of period samples con-
tained between the extremes. Average wave periods and period-sample var-
iation from the average are laid out in future time to gain an estimate of
when future nests-of-lows are likely to form. The phase of each wave is
noted as the time elapsed since the last known trough of the wave, and the
wave direction is inferred from the phase.

@ FPA always begins with a long wave and extends toward consecutively
shorter waves. FPA completion always begins with a fully-phased short
wave, and proceeds toward consecutively longer waves.

© A completed FPA provides the information needed to construct a current
cyclic model. The information tabulated in a current cyclic model consists
of the nominal-model wave periods, the corresponding average periods
from the FPA, the phase of each wave at present time, the estimated direc-
tion of action of each wave at present time, and the wave FLD numbers.

© Time translation, which is caused by trend, is a shift in the time positions of
price highs or lows relative to the associated wave crests or troughs. The
combined effects of the Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity cause
high translation to be much more pronounced than low translation, This
is the reason why price lows are used in FPA instead of price highs. When
trend is down, low translation is to the right and high translation is to the

left. When trend is up, low translation is to the left and high translation is
to the right.

 

 

isk potential is an estimate of the capital that will be lost if a transaction
is stopped out. Risk potential can be estimated quite accurately. Trans-
action risk is the likelihood of being stopped out of a transaction instead

of terminating the transaction at a profit. Transaction risk cannot be eval-
uated directly, but a properly conducted cyclic analysis provides insight and
feel for this quantity. This kind of risk is high for edge-band transactions,
especially for long transactions entered near nests-of-lows that contain long
waves and for short transactions entered near expected price tops. Trans-
action risk is minimized when trend supports the expected move, when

analysis evidence is non-ambiguous, and when transaction entry is effected
at mid-band.

 

Bakdog

poasasoy S148 ITV
“sup 'ss94g S19PEAL ELE @


 

Rights Reserved

 

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

fr

 

© The concepts of mid band and edge band are closely related to the idea of
a trading cycle. The trading cycle is the longest wave of the composite wave
determined to be responsible for price move expectations. Transactions
entered at or near the price lows or highs of the trading cycle are known as
edge-band transactions. Transactions entered at or near the center of the
expected price move associated with the trading cycle are known as mid-
band transactions.

@ A trading cycle is determined prior to each transaction. This may be done
by measuring the percentage price moves associated with various compos-
ite waves. The longest wave in a composite wave that produces acceptable
percentage price moves is then the trading cycle. Alternatively, if price pro-
jections are available, the trading cycle is the longest wave of the composite
wave responsible for the projected price movements.

© A current cyclic model permits estimation of future time trend underlying
each wave of the model. This is particularly important with regard to the
trading cycle. The process consists of adding a fixed amount of time to the
phase of each wave involved in a particular trend and determining the
new wave-action directions. The number of up directions and down direc-
tions are noted, and the net difference is used as the desired indication of
trend direction at the new time.

© Action signals are price events that confirm anticipated wave action. The
most commonly used action signals are price breaks of VTL’s, FLD's, or
horizontal price lines. There are many different kinds of action signals
including stop-loss levels, buy signals, sell signals, sell-short signals, cover-
short signals, profit-preservation signals and situation warnings.

© A complete cyclic analysis is called a CCA and typically requires 40 min-
utes to 1-1/2 hours. Two rapid-analysis modes are also available called
VRS (very rapid scan) and RS (rapid scan).

© ACCA consists of a Periodogram interpretation leading to an initial cyc-
lic model; use of the initial cyclic model in conjunction with the Dominancy
Envelope and its centerline to initiate an FPA; completion of the FPA; ex-
traction of information from the FPA; construction of a current cyclic
model; and complete VTL-FLD analysis, including FLD pattern interpre-
tation.

 


 

ry

summary

continued ©

© VRS and RS methods are used to scan a stable of issues rapidly to isolate
those equities in which transaction opportunities may be near. These
methods make extensive use of two-finger measurements on a chart, and of
past-time FLD implications (obtained without actually drawing in the
FLD’s). VRS requires about 5 minutes while RS requires about 20 minutes.

 

© The process of transaction analysis consists of a number of organized steps.
VRS or RS analysis is used to determine whether a CCA is warranted. If
s0, a CCA is conducted, including FLD and VTL layout and analysis from
which current and future wave status estimates are formed and transaction
risk is estimated.

Price objectives and stop-loss levels are then determined, after which PR
ratios and potential percentages versus transaction entry prices are studied.
Action signals are selected; the trading cycle is determined; future trends
are noted; and a maximum buy price (or minimum sell-short price) is es-
tablished.

Not until this entire effort is complete is the analyst in a position to make
a decision to enter a transaction or to wait for another opportunity.

© FLD’s can be used in past and near-current time to aid in detecting various
trend changes. In this application, single FLD price projections are com-
pared to actual price performance. Then trend implications are derived by
noting whether FLD objectives are over-shot, met, or undershot. Trend is
presumed to be in the direction of the objective when the objective is over-
shot, flat when the objective is just met, and against the direction of the ob-
jective when the objective is undershot.

© tis most important to note the presence of outstanding (non-retired) FLD
price objectives from the past. An FLD price objective is retired when
satisfactory evidence is in hand that the wave crest or trough that was to
produce the price low or high associated with the objective has been passed.

© The process of cyclic analysis is never mechanical. Throughout, the tech-
nique of “building evidence” and the use of cyclic concept logic is required.

© Difficult analytical problems should be approached first by searching basic
knowledge for a possible solution; second, by determining whether the
problem really requires solution before a transaction decision can be made;
and third, by continuing the analysis, to see if a solution to the problem

CF

 

“au ‘smug S19pUAL £161 @ WHKIOD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING |!
COURSES |

MTT TT) [ea
a
i

does not come out of further developments. Analytical problems are often
resolved routinely as the analysis progresses.

© When analytical problems are encountered, an appraisal should be made of
the impact on the transaction decision of a possible error in the problem
solution. A large part of the skill of cyclic analysis lies in the ability to de-
termine which analytical results should cause concern and which should
not.

‘© Minimum potential percentage is a function of trading or investment goals,
but should not be less than about 20%. Transactions with PR ratios of one
are no better than gambling if transaction risk is $0% or higher. Since
transaction risk cannot be accurately evaluated, PR ratios less than two
should not be employed.

© Price tops are intrinsically different from price bottoms. The combined
effects of the Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity are responsi-
ble for this, causing sharp lows and rounded tops. In addition, low transla-
tion effects tend to be small while high translation effects tend to be large.

© Because of these factors, short transactions should be handled in a differ
ent way than long transactions. In general, short sales should take place
near trading cycle mid band and should then only be made when sufficient
price movement remains to satisfy PR ratio and potential percentage re-
quirements.

© Short transactions have certain special characteristics: A given price move
produces less potential percentage than a long transaction. For stocks, a
1/8th up-tick is required to short; the short-seller is required to pay any
dividends that may come due during the transaction; it is possible to lose
more than the initially invested capital even if margin is not used; and stock
may not be available for borrowing at the desired time. In general, it is
easier to short commodities than to short stocks.

© The price movements of all equities consist of the sum of price waves with
more or Jess common characteristics. Nevertheless, fundamental factors
do influence price. They do so by interacting with cyclic phenomena, gen-
erally causing changes in wave amplitudes. Wave periods and phases are
unaffected, thus transaction timing is not deranged by fundamental con-
siderations.

 

Page Sl—


rd

Page 52.

 

TTty — vent

 

summary)

contived
©

© There is more to managing funds using cyclic concepts than setting up a
transaction. Intra-transaction analysis is necessary as well as fund-place-
ment strategy and rigid emotional control. Such topics will be covered in
following lessons.

© This completes your study summary of the elemental cyclic concepts pre-
sented so far. It is most important that you grasp the meaning and implica-
tions of all of this material before proceeding with your training. If there are
concepts that are not yet clear in your mind, you should study the appropri-
ate portion of the material in lessons one through five until understanding is
achieved. Do not be satisfied with merely taking and scoring the examina-
tion for this lesson. Use it as a means of determining that the meaning and
implications of the point in question are clear in your mind. Time and effort
spent on this summary and exam will be well repaid during the lessons
to follow.

 

Poaresoy Suan TY
ad SIPPBL EL61 @ INBULdO


ro
© A

GLOSSARY

Page S3—


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

LESSON

 

ACTION SIGNAL A price break of a VTL, FLD, or horizontal price line
indicating a strong likelihood that an anticipated price move is under way.

AMPLITUDE The size or amount of the price movement involved as a price
wave goes from trough to crest.

AUGMENTED MEASURING STRIP A measuring strip that has had pe-

riod samples added to the original nominal-model and Periodogram wave
period estimates.

AVERAGE PERIOD A wave period estimate formed by averaging two or
more trough-to-trough measurements.

BAR-CHART A common way of plotting, or graphing, equity prices. The
high and low prices for a day are joined by a vertical straight line to show the
range over which prices traded for that day. The consecutive set of such lines
is called a daily bar-chart of that equity. Similarly, the high and low prices for
‘a week can be compiled to form a weekly bar-chart for the equity.

BOTTOMING In reference to a wave, means that the wave is forming a
trough.

BREAK Prices break a VTL or an FLD when they pass from one side of the
VTL or FLD to the other (from above to below, or vice versa).

CASCADE A rippling, or one-thing-followed-by-another, effect. In cyclic
theory, the tendency under certain circumstances for an FLD break to predict,
prices which will break another FLD, thus predicting still greater price moves,
ete.

CCA See complete cyclic analysis.

COMMONALITY A term indicating that price movements of negotiable

equities have similar qualities in spite of the diversity of visual appearances
of price charts.

COMPLETE CYCLIC ANALYSIS orCCA The most extensive cyclic analysis

possible. Used prior to each transaction to assure that no wave information of

importance has been overlooked. The primary means by which transaction
risk is evaluated.

COMPLETION As applied to phasing analysis, the process of filling phasing
gaps after entry and extension have been accomplished.

 

Page 54——


rr

 
  
  

CLITEC )
VICES
INNING
| COURSEO

 

COMPONENT A single wave in price movement or in the composite wave
formed from several single waves.

COMPOSITE WAVE The single new form resulting from the combination
by summation of two or more price waves.

CONSECUTIVE TROUGHS Wave troughs from consecutive cycles of a
given wave.

poasasay sunt ny
“UY 'SS24q S19PELL CLGT @ WIBUKdOD

CREST or WAVE CREST The highest point on a component price wave.

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL A tabulation of wave periods, phases, and
directions of action. The best available estimate of the values for these charac-
teristics of the waves active in the price movement of a given equity at a given
time. Usually includes FLD numbers for easy reference.

CYCLE One complete movement of a price wave from one trough to the
next consecutive trough. QO

CYCLICALITY Derived from the word cycle. A generic term referring to the
wave phenomena in the price action of equities.

CYCLIC ANALYSIS. The means by which cyclic concepts are used to pro-
duce transaction-decision information.

CYCLIC MODEL See current cyclic model.

DIRECT COMPARISON A technique whereby available period estimates
are laid out on a measuring strip which is then visually compared with price
action.

DOMINANT WAVE or DOMINANT COMPONENT The longest wave con-
tained by the Dominancy Envelope.

DOMINANCY ENVELOPE A computer generated aid present on Cyclitee
charts. A constant vertical height envelope containing most of price move-
ment. Contains the dominant wave and all shorter waves. Serves as a wave-
period divider.

DOMINANCY ENVELOPE CENTERLINE A smooth curve central to the
Dominancy Envelope. The sum of all waves longer than the dominant wave.

DOWNSIDE Ina downward direction.


is Ine.
Copyright © 1973 Traders Press,
‘All Rights Reserved

LESSON

 

DOWNTREND LINE A trend line connecting specially selected price highs.
‘The later price high is lower than the earlier price high so that the line slants
downward to the right.

EDGE-BAND TRANSACTION A transaction that is entered at a major
nest-of-lows near the edge of the trading cycle channel.

EL Read sigma et. Stands for sum long. Consists of the sum of all waves
longer than the longest wave identified and phased.

ENTRY The means of starting a phasing analysis. The placement of the
first phasing diamonds of a phasing analysis.

EQUITY or NEGOTIABLE EQUITY A generic label for securities, com-
modity futures contracts, etc., traded on an auction market.

EXTENSION As applied to a phasing analysis, the means of phasing suc-
cessively shorter waves after an entry has been effected.

FLD An acronym for Future Line of Demarcation. An FLD is a forward-
shifted replica of past price averages and has useful properties.

FLD NUMBER A number used in constructing an FLD. It is found by divid-
ing the period of the wave on which the FLD is based by two, then adding one.

FLD PRICE PROJECTION The process by which an analyst can, at the time
of an FLD price break, form an estimate of the extent of the existing price
move.

FLD PRICE OBJECTIVE The price to which an analyst expects prices to go
as a result of an FLD price projection,

FORMAL PHASING ANALYSIS A complete phasing analysis with a full set
of phasing diamonds, as distinguished from a more cursory phasing analysis
that might result from VRS or RS.

FPA See formal phasing analysis.

FUTURE TIME POSITION A place on an equity price bar-chart corres-
ponding to some time in the future; that is, some time to the right of the last
known price bar on the chart.

GAP Ina row of phasing diamonds, a space too long to represent a period

 

PARE Sb


LESSON

—— Page 57.

glossary

continued

 

sample, On a Cyclitec chart, a space where no price bar is shown because
the market was closed that day.

GRID LINE NUMBER Refers to the time scale reading on a Cyclitec chart
corresponding with a given vertical grid line on the chart. A convenient ref-
erence for various activities displayed on a Cyclitec chart.

HARMONICITY Derived from the word harmonious or harmonic. Means
that wave periods are related by small, whole numbers.

HIGH TRANSLATION The time translation effect as related to price highs
versus wave crests.

INITIAL CYCLIC MODEL A tabulated set of wave periods derived from
Periodogram interpretation and the Principle of Nominality. Used as a guide
in setting up a current cyclic model.

LONG To go long in an equity is to purchase it in the expectation of selling
it later at a higher price.

LOW TRANSLATION The time translation effect as related to price lows
versus wave troughs.

MARGIN The actual amount of capital provided by an investor when part
of the capital necessary for a transaction is borrowed against the stock, bond,
or other equity involved.

MEASURING STRIP A strip of paper with estimated periods laid out on
it. Used in phasing analysis.
Also, a strip of paper with an FLD number laid out on it. Used for FLD
measurements.

MID-BAND TRANSACTION A transaction that is entered at a minor nest-
of-lows near the middle of the trading cycle channel.

MID-CHANNEL PAUSE A significant slowdown or double reversal in price
movement that occurs approximately midway between the trading cycle high
and the trading cycle low.

MOST SIGNIFICANT PRICE LOW Means most visually evident. Applied
to the coarsest price movement between two consecutive wave troughs. A price
low that is made up of a greater number of coincident wave troughs than are
adjacent price lows.

 

asiskdog

paasasoy SN IV
“uy ‘ssaad 552PB1L E61 @


LESSON

 

NEIGHBORING As applied to waves, refers to two waves in a set of waves
whose periods are closest to being the same.

NEST-OF-LOWS A time when two or more component price waves form
simultaneous troughs.

NOMINAL MODEL or NOMINAL CYCLIC MODEL list of the periods
of the price waves to be expected in price movements.

NOW TIME Synonymous with current, or present, time. The time at which
an analysis is being made. The latest time for which price data is available.

PAST-TIME FLD An FLD plotted in the chart area representing time prior
to current time. Usually used to aid identification of wave trough location.
Uses a simplified FLD number consisting of merely one-half of the wave
period estimate.

» PAST-TIME POSITION A location on an equity price bar-chart correspond-
ing to some time in the past; that is, some time to the left of the last known
price bar on the chart.

 

PERIOD The length of time that elapses between a trough of a price wave

and the next consecutive trough of the same wave.

PERIODOGRAM A convenient means of presenting information about
many price waves simultaneously. A plot of wave amplitude versus wave pe-
riod. Consists of a series of vertical lines, each representing a potential wave.
Line height indicates amplitude, while horizontal line position indicates
period.

PERIOD SAMPLE A measurement of elapsed time between estimated posi-
tions of consecutive wave troughs.

PHASE The time relationship between two price waves.

Al Rights Reserved

PHASING ANALYSIS A procedure for isolating the wave components pre-
sent in a complex composite wave. A series of methods whereby wave trough
positions are estimated. The means of refining an initial cyclic model into a
current cyclic model.

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

PHASING DIAMOND A diamond-shaped mark placed on a chart to denote
the best estimate of the time location of a wave trough.


 

rr

Page 5

TTT] CYCLITEC >

Ia) ||| ||| SERVICES
glossary taAINinG
i COURSEO

POTENTIAL Short for potential profit. The difference between the entry
and exit prices of a transaction expressed in price units.

POTENTIAL PERCENTAGE Anticipated profit (potential) expressed as a
percentage of the transaction entry commitment.

PR An acronym for Potential-Risk ratio. The ratio of potential to risk;
that is, potential divided by risk.

PREDICTION An estimate of something expected to happen in the future.
Never exact, always an expected high likelihood.

PRE-DOMINANT WAVE or PRE-DOMINANT COMPONENT The wave
just longer than the dominant wave. The shortest wave that is part of the sum
of waves comprising the Dominancy Envelope centerline.

PRICE ACTION or PRICE MOVEMENT Refers to the fact that equity
prices change constantly as time passes. The motion of prices as time goes on. )

PRICE-MOVEMENT PERIODOGRAM A Periodogram constructed by
analysis of price data. Interpreted by noting the period of the tallest line of
each set that forms a peak in the Periodogram shape.

poasasoy RIV
-ouy ‘ssa4g S49PBAL £L61 @ WSO

PROBABILISTIC Having to do with probabilities. Dealing with likelihood
stronger than possibility, but falling short of certainty.

PROPORTIONALITY orPROPORTIONAL TO A relationship between
‘two quantities such that as one increases, the other also increases, and by the
same percentage. In cyclic concepts, relates to the amplitude and period of
the various waves in a cyclic model.

PSEUDO TREND A trend-like price movement that is caused by price wave
amplitude changes stemming from fundamental events.

PZ Anacronym for Pause Zone. A price region in which one or more FLD's
tend to congregate in a horizontal band. A price region where prices tend to
slow-down or reverse a cascade movement.”

RALLY An upward price movement.

RANGE OF PERIOD ESTIMATES A time span corresponding to the dif-
ference between maximum and minimum estimates of the period of a given
wave.

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,

Alll Rights Reserved

CYCLITEG i Lesson
SERVICES |

RAINING il
COURSEO LL)

 

RAPID SCAN or RS A simplified method of cyclic analysis requiring about
twenty minutes.

RISK Short for Joss risk. The amount that will be lost in case the transaction
is terminated because prices penetrate the stop-loss level.

SHORT or SELL SHORT To sell borrowed stock in the expectation that the
price will subsequently go down. If the price does go down, a profit is made by
replacing the borrowed stock with stock purchased on the open market at the
reduced price.

STABLE A group of equity charts that are updated, followed, and analyzed
regularly.

STOP-LOSS LEVEL A special kind of action signal. A price level at which a

transaction is terminated because the probabilities no longer favor a profit-
able outcome. This action usually results in a loss on the transaction,

SUMMATION The act of summing, or adding.

SYNCHRONICITY Derived from the word synchronous or synchronize.
Means to occur simultaneously in time. In cyclic theory, the term refers to the
tendency of the troughs of one component wave to occur at the same time as
the troughs of other component waves in the same composite wave.

TIME-ALONG A term used as a convenient measurement of wave phase.
Means time elapsed since last known wave trough.

TIME SCALE Ona Cyclitec chart, a series of numbers laid out horizontally
and corresponding to a count of the vertical grid lines. A convenient means of

referring to specific grid lines.
Also a convenient means of measuring elapsed time between marks on a

measuring strip.

TIME TRANSLATION The shift that underlying trend causes in the time
position of price lows and highs so that they no longer coincide with associated
wave troughs and crests.

TOPPING In reference to a wave, means that the wave is forming a crest.

TRADING CYCLE The longest wave of the composite wave relied upon to
take prices from the transaction entry price to the objective.

Page 6mm

 


 

LESSON

Page 61.

 

TRANSACTION RISK The probability of a transaction terminating at a loss
as opposed to terminating with a profit.

TREND Generally, the strength and direction of price moveinent if short,
term fluctuations in price are ignored. In cyclic theory, trend is the sum of all
price waves longer in period than the specific wave for which trend is being
defined.

TREND LINE A line drawn across'specially selected price highs (or price
lows).

TROUGH or WAVE TROUGH The lowest point on a component price
wave.

UPSIDE In an upward direction.

UP-TICK A small price move in the upward direction.

UPTREND LINE A trend line connecting specially selected price lows. The
later price low is higher than the earlier price low so that the line slants up-
ward to the right.

VALID TREND LINE A trend line drawn according to specific rules so that
the result has meaning in terms of cyclic concepts. Abbreviated VTL.

VARIATION In cyclic concepts, refers to the fact that actual local wave
conditions differ from the nominal, or long-term average, expectation.

VERY RAPID SCAN or VRS A simplified method of cyclic analysis requir-
ing about five minutes.

VOLATILITY INDEX A number appearing in the heading line of Cyclitee
charts. Gives a measure of the relative volatility of the issue; that is, the per-
centage rate, or speed, with which prices for the issue tend to change.

VRS See very rapid scan.

WAVE As applied to price movement, a repetitive fluctuation in price with
well defined, measurable characteristics.

WAVE DIRECTION The best estimate of the direction in which a given
price wave is tending to move prices at present time. Spoken of as being up,
down, flat, bottoming, or topping.

 

paaassy sunt TY
“UT ‘8894q S19PEA] C61 @ WBUAdO

oO


Alll Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

cYCLITEC | oe rT
AVICES TH
TRAINING ||/// glossary
couRseo lil Ut

WAVE-PERIOD DIVIDER A means of separating the sum of all waves
forming a given price movement into two simpler sums of waves. Each of the
two sums consists of contiguous waves of the cyclic model.

The Dominancy Envelope and its centerline function as a wave-period divider,

WAVE PHASE An indication of the location in time of the wave shape. Con-

veniently measured as time elapsed from the most recent wave trough to

current, or present, time,

———$ ree 2


er
© 5

SELF-EXAMINATION

Page 63 —


 

Al Rights Reserved

‘Lopyrigm ©

ree TTT

 

TTT LESSON
ICES | self-examination

SEO LL i

 

It is suggested that you go all the way through the examination a first time
without referring to the cassette or text material, In doing so, mark answers
only to the questions you are sure of: don’t guess. Leaving an answer un-
marked will flag that question for further attention on the second pass
through the exam.

After you have finished the first pass, check the answers you have marked
against the answer key, circling any that are wrong. Then go back through the
examination and refer to the text material to refresh your memory on those
questions that you answered wrong or left unanswered.

1, Assume that in a commodity transaction the buy price was 66¢ and the
sell price was 72e. Also assume the value (per contract) of a 1¢ move to be
$300 and the margin requirement to be $750. For this situation the re-
sulting profit expressed as a percent of funds invested was:

a. 9.09%
b. 15.25%
c. 240.0%
d. None of these

2. Acurrent cyclic model shows the following:

ELisup
A 98.3-week wave is 96 weeks along
A 49.1-week wave is 47 weeks along
A 24.6-week wave is 22 weeks along
A 86.0-day wave is 73 days along
A 43.0-day wave is 30 days along
A 21.5-day wave is 8 days along
A 10.7-day wave is 8 days along.

The price high associated with the current cycle of the 21.5-day wave is
likely to be translated:

ee


 

rT TTITTTITITITIITIN C¥el . )

 

contbrued|
©
2
£
a. Totheleft z @
b. To the right 38
5
c. No high translation is expected. i z
3. The combined effects of the Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity as
assure that all price lows will be sharp and peaked, while all price tops will 3
be rounded in shape. F
z

True{]  False{ }

4, In setting up a transaction the buy price is 24, the sell price is 29, and the
stop-loss level is 22. Transaction risk is:

a. Large

b. Two price units

 

c. Five price units
d. Small

e. Forty percent
f. None of these.

5. A transaction has been entered and prices are near the objective. Price
performance has been such that the objective has been nearly reached in
much less time than was anticipated. Under these circumstances it is ad-
visable to change to a longer trading cycle in order to gain more from the

transaction.
True{ | False[ }

6. In conducting a phasing analysis (FPA), the objective is to:

4a, Find the estimated time positions of price lows associated with all
troughs of all waves of the cyclic model

b. Find the estimated time positions of all troughs of all waves of the cyc-
lic model

¢. Establish the identity of the pre-dominant and dominant wave

d. None of these.

—— Page 6


; es - TT) [Ea

On

 

A period divider:
a, Isan alternate name for the Periodogram
b. Isa desk-top calculating device
c. Separates price movement into two composite waves
d. Can separate cyclic and fundamental effects
e. Allof the above
f None of these.
8, Trend:

a. Isa composite wave

b. Can be both up and down at the same time

¢. Determines the occurrence and extent of time-translation effects

d. Can be estimated using past-time FLD's

e. Allofthe above

f. None of these.
9. The last known trough of a 52-day wave is located 93 days ago.

4. No information is available from this statement regarding direction
of wave action at current time

b. A trough of this wave is long overdue
c. The best estimate of current wave direction is down
d. The best estimate of current wave direction is up

€. The phase of this wave has changed

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.
‘All Rights Reserved

£ None of these.

10. ‘Two period samples for the nominal 10-week wave are identifiable on a
daily chart. These two samples average 71 days in length. Also, 11 sam-
ples of the nominal 20-day wave are present and average 16.3 days in

 

Page 6——


 

Page 6;

i Seay
self-examination | ; RAININ
i

11.

12.

13.

14,

continged i

length. The most accurate estimate of the period of the nominal 10-week
wav

 

a. 71 days
b. 65.2days
c. Neither of these.

You are phasing a chart and have two price lows as possibles for a given
wave trough. At the times of the possible price lows, the trend underlying

the wave being phased is steeply down. As a result of these considerations:

a. The possible to the left would be more likely to represent the desired
wave trough location

b. The possible to the right would be more likely to represent the desired
wave trough location

¢. There is not enough information to decide one way or the other.

In using cyclic analysis methods it is unlikely that 100% time investment,
of funds can be attained.
True{ | False{ ]

Prices are moving down toward a nest-of-lows. One future time FLD is
rising during the period of time in which prices are expected to be going
up after a reversal.

a. This action signifies a PZ

b. This is as it should be since prices rise as FLD's rise

¢. Prices moving up from the nest of lows are likely to break this FLD
d. NoFLD cascade is possible under these circumstances

©. This FLD is unlikely to be broken by rising prices

Lf. None of these.

Pause zones (PZ's) must form in order for FLD price objectives to be
be possible.
True[] — False[ ]

 

ponsasay SIV3PY TV
“uy ‘s594g SHELL EL6T @ WBA


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

self-examination

continued

©

15. Conflicting evidence obtained during transaction analysis must be resolved
before it can be said that transaction risk is low.
True( | False{

16. A PR ratio of 1.0 is acceptable so long as transaction risk is considered
to be small.
True{ | False{ J

17. List the decimal equivalent to three decimal places for: 1/8, 1/4, 3/8,
1/2, 5/8, 3/4, and 7/8,

18. List the complete simplified nominal model periods using the most ap-
propriate time units for each wave,

19, The phase of a price wave is most conveniently expressed as:
a. The time elapsed from trough to trough of the wave
b. The time elapsed since the last known trough of the wave
©. One-half the period of the wave plus one
d. A wave action direction in the form of an arrow
©. Allof the above
f. None of these.

20, A maximum buy price or minimum sell-short price is principally deter-
mined by:

a, FLD objectives
b. ACCA

©. Prices that appear attainable in view of wave status estimates and that
provide acceptable PR ratios and potential percentages

d. The shape of the curve of PR ratio versus transaction entry price
e. None of these.

21, Trend underlying a given wave has been down. An upcoming FLD cas-
cade to the upside projects price levels to a point where a valid down-

—.. rrr 8


LESSON

——$ Page 69.

selfiexamination

 

 

  

continued

trend line based on the given wave will be broken to the upside. When this
FLD cascade starts:

4a. Itis likely to stop before reaching the VTL
b. The resulting price reversal is likely to be “spotty”
¢. The VIL is shown to be “retired”
d. The trend underlying the given wave is likely to have been reversed
e. None of these.
22. Prices are moving down, Some FLD’s are above price.
4. Prices are moving into a nest-of-lows
b. Prices are vulnerable to a turnaround

¢. FLD price objectives on the upside greater than any implied by the
FLD's currently above price may be in effect

d. A buying opportunity may be at hand
¢. Allof the above
fi None of these.

23. FPA is a wholly mechanical process so long as entry, extension, and com-
pletion are undertaken in the proper order.
True{}  False{ }

24. Once an FPA is properly completed to current time, it should never re-
quire revision in later time.
True{ |}  False{ }

25. Cyclic analysis is applicable only to trading and is not adaptable to long

term investing.

True{ | False{ ]
26. A pre-set stop-loss level may be safely ignored if:
a. Fundamental news continues to favor the transaction

b. The transaction entry point is at mid-band

 

paaaasay swyany TY

“Buy ‘85044 S12] EL6T @ WBLAKdOD,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

 

 

ca continued |
{ Lilit Lidiit

©. Analysis during the transaction shows trend underlying the trading cy-
cle to be more strongly favoring the transaction than previously believed

d. Allof the above
e. None of these.
27. A Periodogram:
a. Is primarily useful in establishing wave phase
4. Provides wave amplitude measurements in price units
¢. Helps detect wave effects due to the Principle of Variation
d. None of these.
28, The maximum period of waves active in price movement is:
a. Unknown
5. 54 months
c. [8 years
d. None of these.
29. The Dominancy Envelope centerline tends to fluctuate in sympathy with:
a. The pre-dominant wave

b. The wave next longer than the longest wave contained by the Domin-
ancy Envelope

©. The trend underlying the dominant wave

d. The trend underlying the longest wave contained by the Dominancy
Envelope

e. Allof the above
f None of these.
30. The Dominancy Envelope contains:

a. The dominant wave only

ge

> self-examination
FETe

LESSON


LESSON

—— Page 71.

b. The composite wave consisting of the dominant wave plus.all short-
er waves

¢. The pre-dominant wave plus the sum of all longer waves
d. All of the above
e. None of these.
31. A pseudo trend is:
a. Caused by fundamental factors
b. A cyelic trend that has gotten out of hand
c. Always an uptrend

d. A classification for trends underlying waves longer than the domin-
ant wave

¢. None of these.

32. Cyclic transaction timing tends to be disrupted by fundamental events
True{ | False[ ]

33. An FLD dips to form a trough in future time, then rises. The implication
is:
a. That longer period waves than the wave on which the FLD is based
are confusing the picture and the FLD action should be ignored

b. Price action due to the wave on which the FLD is based may form a
high at that time in the future

c. A price drop is unlikely to break that FLD at that future time
d. Allof the above
e. None of these.
34. Prices are moving up. Under these circumstances:
a. NoFLD’s will be below prices
b. AIL FLD’s must be below prices

 

 

pouosey smn
“su ss014 S19pt, ¢161 0 KIO


Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, ine.

3s.

37.

38.

TT TTT
TTT

SeRvices PT
TRAINING | SEE caminat
courseo LUT T

   

 

 

¢. Some FLD's may be above prices while others are below

d. Prices are likely to continue moving up

¢. A short transaction cannot be planned

f. None of these.

The magnet effect:

a. Has to do with the tendency of prices to climb more than to drop
4. Isa concept having to do with VIL's

c. Isa descriptive name given to the apparent tendency of prices to turn
toward the preponderance of FLD's

d. None of these.
A trading cycle:

a. Is always the dominant wave

b. Is selected in accordance with potential percentage goals
c. Need not be established if FLD price objectives exist

d. All of the above

€. None of these.

All cyclic analysis problems and ambiguities must be resolved before a
transaction decision can be made.
True{]— False[ ]

Three special considerations of short transactions are:
4. Commodity prices must show an uptick before a short can be effected.

b. The short seller of stock must pay any dividends declared during the
transaction.

¢. The PR ratios of short sales are seldom acceptable.

d. Stock borrowed for a short sale must be returned within a given time.

ge 2


 

LESSON

Page 73.

CYCLITEC
SERVICES

seltexamination || tr AiNiNG

39.

4.

42.

COURSEO

e. More than the initial investment can be lost even without margin con-
siderations.

fi. The potential percentage of a short sale is less than for a long transac-
tion even if the transaction entry and termination prices are the same.

8. Itis against the law to short most commodities.

A mid-band transaction based upon a given wave may be an edge-band

transaction for another wave.
True{ | False[ |

‘A mid-channel pause:
a. Occurs only in relationship to the Dominancy Envelope
b. Should never be used as a short transaction entry opportunity

c. Is caused by the shorter wave that is four removed from the wave con-
tained by the channel under consideration

d. Forms most often as a result of the 18-month wave
€. Allof the above
fi. None of these.

An FLD and a VTL (both based upon the same wave) are broken by
prices simultaneously. Under these circumstances:

a. The VTL break cancels the meaning of the FLD break

b. The VTL break provides information on longer waves than does the
FLD break

¢. A VIL Cascade is underway
d. Allof the above
e. None of these.

The trend underlying the dominant wave is most accurately determined
for current time by observing the right-hand end of the Dominancy En-

envelope centerline,
True[]  False[ ]

 

paasosay sg8R IV
“Duy ‘ssa4q S19pHAL ELT @ IYILIAAOD


43.

47.

Copyrignt © 19/9 Eraders tress, Ine.
‘Al Rights Reserved

 

An initial cyclic model:
a. Is a waste of time
b. Is an adequate model on which to base a final FLD pattern analysis

©. Incorporates information from the Periodogram and the Principle of
Nominality

d. Is primarily concerned with the combined effects of the Principles of
Harmonicity and Synchronicity

€. None of these.

It is generally easier to short commodities than it is to short stocks.
True[] — False{ }

The Principle of Proportionality is a major aid in FPA.
True{] False ]

Nests-of-highs:

a. Tend not to exist

b. Are responsible for the characteristic shape of price tops

Are responsible for high-translation effects
d, Allofthe above

€. None of these.

Transaction risk:

a. Can be calculated once transaction entry and termination prices are
known

b. Cannot be evaluated using cyclic techniques
¢. Is increased under certain wave status conditions
d. Is of no interest to the cyclic analyst

e. Is the amount of capital likely to be lost if a transaction is stopped out.

 

ge


 

 

TTI

 

1 OVELITEC

seMt-examination \Sean

 

 

48. A given cyclic analysis is more likely

a. Give evidence of an upcoming short transaction than a long transac-
tion

b. Provide evidence of some kind of upcoming transaction than not
c. Indicate that there is no upcoming low-risk transaction than not
d. None of these.

49. A properly executed cyclic analysis should never result in a loss.
True{ | False[ |

50. A price objective has been set at 32-5/8. A logical stop-loss level has been
set at 27-1/8. The resulting PR ratio is:

 

a. 5.5

b. Acceptable

c. 3.0 fora buy price of 28.5
d. None of these.

086 —$—$—$—$—$————————————————————

poarseay su TV
pay ssaug SH9pHAL E161 O IFAD


LESSON

5

 

ANSWERS

 

 

19. b. 35. .
20. 6. 36. b.
2. d. 37. False.
22. e. 38. be, fi
23. False. > 39. True.
+: 24, False. 40. f.
25. False. Alb.
26. e. 42. False.
We. 43.6.
10. b. 28. a. 44, True.
I. a. 29. €. 45, False.
12. True. 30. b. 46. a.
z 13. e. 31. a. ae.
Eh 14, False. 32. False. 48. oc.
gc 1S. True. 33. b. 49. False.
id 16, False. H. c. 50. ©.
BF 17, .125, .250, .375, .500, .625, .750, .875.
= 18. 18 years, 9 years, 54 months, 18 months, 9 months,
E 20 weeks, 80 days, 40 days, 20 days, 10 days, 5 days.
é

—_—.] Pree 16


 

CASSETTE SCRIPT

Page 77—


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

 

TT ea

CYCLITEC TTT
f

yee

SC AIMING | cassette script
EO mi

 

 

 

SECTION ONE REVIEW
In lessons one through three you learned of the basic eyclic concepts and of,
the important methods and processes for analyzing an equity. Then, in lesson
four, you put these ideas and methods to work for the first time in setting up
a long transaction.

In this lesson, we wish to do the same for a short sale.

There are fundamental cyclic differences between price tops and price bot-
toms which require that short transactions be dealt with in a somewhat dif-
ferent manner than long transactions. Yet, as we shall see, the basic proced-
ures of setting up a short transaction are not too different from those already
learned.

The specific steps taken to analyze any transaction are so important that an
organized review is warranted before proceeding to a specific discussion of
selling short.

Cyclic analysis of any transaction involves fourteen basic procedures. In
chronological order, these are as follows:

First is the use of VRS or RS analysis to determine whether immediate inter-
est is in order.

Ifa decision is then made to continue the study of a specific transaction,
an FPA will be required. This results in a phased set of charts from which a
current cyclic model is constructed.

From the phased charts and the current cyclic model, information regarding
transaction risk and nearness of possible action is obtained.

The current cyclic model makes it possible to construct VTLs, lay out current
and future time FLD’s, interpret the FLD patterns, and set the price ob-
jective.

Following this, the trading cycle is determined, the action signal is selected,
and a projection is made of the trend underlying the trading cycle.

The selection of the trading cycle clears the way for determining the stop-
loss level, which then permits a study of PR ratios and gross percentage po-
tentials versus transaction entry prices.

Page 78 ——

 


 

7 fEC )
cassette script

LESSON

SECTION ONE REVIEW continued

The final two steps in analyzing a transaction consists of setting the maxi-
mum buy price (or minimum short-sell price), and of a final reevaluation of

transaction risk.

 

poaesay susni tv

‘Uy "saad S4APEAL C161 @ IYBUKdOLy

‘These fourteen steps are involved in one form or anothet in all transactions
based on cyclic principles. Because of their importance, they can form the
basis for a transaction evaluation checklist, a summary form of which will be
found in the accompanying text.

Before we leave the subject, let's go through a quick review of those proced-
ures which were presented for the first time in the last lesson.

A VRS analysis requires about five minutes, consists of several two-finger

FLD passes followed by interpretation of the results, and is primarily used to

isolate the equities of most immediate interest from all others in a stable. »
¢

RS analysis takes about twenty minutes, is based on a partial phasing anal-
ysis, and on roughly sketched in VTL’s and FLD’s.

A complete cyclic analysis, or CCA, consists of several well-defined steps.

First, a weekly initial cyclic model is prepared. From this, a weekly FPA fol-
lows which then results in a weekly current cyclic model.

‘The same three processes are repeated on a daily basis, after which a com-
posite current cyclic model is formed.

The final steps of a CCA consist of locating the estimated time positions of
future nests-of-lows, drawing in current and future time FLD’s, and inter-
preting the FLD patterns.

The concept of transaction risk (as opposed to risk potential) was also intro-
duced in lesson four. Unlike risk potential, transaction risk cannot be fully
quantified. Where risk potential is an estimate of the amount of capital that
may be lost in a transaction, transaction risk is a measure of the probabil-
ity, or likelihood, of taking that loss.

 

‘A method of extracting useful trend information from a study of past-time
FLD price projections was discussed. This technique is based on the fact that
single FLD price projections tend to be undershot, met, or overshot by prices

 

Page 79


AU Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

cassette script —

 

©

SECTION ONE REVIEW continued

depending on whether the trend underlying the wave for which the projection
is made respectively opposes, is neutral to, or supports the projection.

The concept of an action signal was considerably broadened in the last lesson.
An action signal, which can be used for a wide variety of purposes, consists of
any future price action that answers a wave behavior question, The most
commonly used action signals involve price interaction with VTL’s, FLD’s,
and horizontal price lines.

The trading cycle for a given transaction is the longest wave of the composite
wave depended upon to carry prices from the transaction entry to the ob-
jective. In some instances, analysis circumstances permit use of a shorter wave
for the trading cycle so long as the implications remain the same. The trading
eycle determines the stop-loss level, and the wave chosen for the trading cycle
should not be changed during a transaction.

‘The importance of understanding and making full use of the complete set of
methods for analyzing a transaction cannot be over-emphasized. The steps

involved are summarized for ready study and reference in the accompanying
text. Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section one.

SECTION TWO WHAT AFFECTS MARKET TOPS

In the last section we reviewed the elements that are common to setting up a
transaction, whether long or short. Now we are concerned with the differences
that exist between long and short situations.

In lesson one a short transaction was defined as the selling of borrowed stock
in the expectation that prices will subsequently go down. If prices do go down,
a profit is then made by replacing the borrowed stock by purchase on the open
market at the reduced (later) price.

The mechanics of how this is accomplished are well explained in other liter-
ature and we do not need to be concerned with them in this course. What is
of concern, however, is the manner in which cyclic concepts can be used to
provide very much the same assistance in short-selling transactions that they
do in long transactions.

Ina long transaction the desire is to buy at or near a nest-of-lows and to sell at.
or near a price objective that is higher. In selling short the intent is to sell at

 

fc

Page 50—


 

LESSON

Page 81

cassette script

 

SECTION TWO WHAT AFFECTS MARKET TOPS continued

or near a price high and then buy, or cover the short sale, at or near a price
objective that is lower.

Thus far in the course you have learned enough about cyclicality to know that
price tops have different characteristics than price bottoms, but this point
has not yet been emphasized. This fundamental cyclic difference between
price tops and price bottoms has a dramatic impact on cyclic analysis and
transaction decision making in the case of selling short.

First of all, let’s gather together the bits and pieces of cyclic knowledge
already in hand relating to price tops.

For example, you may recall from lesson one a figure that demonstrated why
nests-of-lows tend to form and why similar nests-of-highs are precluded from
forming. This is due to the combined effect of the Principles of Harmonicity
and Synchronicity.

‘The practical result is a characteristicly rounded shape for price tops as op-
posed to a sharp, or peaked, shape at price bottoms.

Visualize what happens as a price bottom is approached. Prices are droppings
toward a nest-of-lows, which is defined as a simultaneously occurring set of
wave troughs. As the nest-of-lows is approached, a point is reached where
each wave associated with the nest-of-lows is acting downward, forcing prices
todrop steeply. As the nest-of-lows is reached, each wave reverses at the same
time, and all of the waves that were formerly causing prices to drop are now
acting together to cause prices to rise. The net effect is a sharp and sudden
price reversal.

Ata price top, no such combined action of waves comes about. At price tops,
each rally and retreat of prices is caused by just a single wave except as sup-
ported or opposed by the trend underlying that wave. The result is a strong
tendency for prices to form a generally rounded top interrupted by oscillations
caused by individual waves.

‘These effects by themselves are enough to cause large differences between
price tops and bottoms. However, the situation is complicated still more
by the time-translation effect.

As price bottoms are traversed the trends underlying most of the waves in the

 

Peasasou smuBR IY

“Duy ‘ssag S19PE4L EL6T @ INBLIKdO


{All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

LESSON

 

SECTION TWO WHAT AFFECTS MARKET TOPS continued

associated nest-of-lows also reverse direction. Thus, low translation is seldom
significant except in the case of very strong trend underlying the longest wave
involved in the price reversal.

Just the contrary is true at price tops. Individual waves are cresting one after
the other all throughout a price top so that various trends are constantly in
the process of altering direction. As a result, the price high associated with the
crest of one wave may be time-translated to the left while that of another may
be time-translated to the right. The particular wave whose crest will ultimate-
ly be associated with the highest price high in a price top is therefore depend-
ent on the strength of the various trends involved. As a consequence, price
tops can take on a wide variety of overall shapes while still retaining the gen-
erally rounded characteristic due to Harmonicity and Synchronicity,

Trend underlying any given wave could be perfectly forecast if price move-
ments consisted of the sum of ideal waves. Since this is not the case, our ability
to estimate future trend is quite rough. Such estimates still have very great
utility, but the present state-of-the-art of cyclic analysis does not permit trend
estimation with sufficient accuracy to handle price top situations with the
same degree of accuracy as price bottoms. This does not mean that selling
short necessitates greater transaction risk, but it does mean that shorts must
be dealt with differently in order to assure equivalent risk. The methods of
doing this will be described in a section to follow.

Now that the basic wave implications of price top formation are in hand,
our understanding of topping action can be further developed.

Since bottoms take place quickly while tops take place slowly, prices are in
the process of forming some kind of a top almost constantly. Suppose, for ex-
ample, that the trading cycle for a given transaction is the 10-week wave.
Then, between two consecutive troughs of this wave a single broad top is to be
expected. However, this top is not smooth and in fact consists of a succession
of tops caused by a composite wave the longest wave of which is shorter than
the trading cycle. Each of these tops, in turn, consists of a succession of still
smaller and shorter tops, etcetera.

Itis apparent that the complexity of a price top grows less as the longest wave
associated with it grows shorter. This is true because of the reduced number
of waves available to produce oscillations and translations throughout top

 


 

Page 83.

 

Hggette script 3 :

  

soyoperes

 

 

SECTION TWO WHAT AFFECTS MARKET TOPS continued

formation. This is an important outgrowth of our understanding of how tops
form, and will be used to good advantage in the strategy for setting up short
transactions.

Also, it should be clearly understood that the general conclusions drawn
about price tops versus price bottoms are, as for all cyclic considerations,
based on strong tendencies rather than on certainties. Cases can be found
where price bottoms are slow and rounded, or where price tops are sharp and
peaked. These are exceptions, however, and the cause of them will be discus-
sed later.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section two.

SECTION THREE EDGE-BAND AND MID-BAND SHORT SALES

We have seen how price bottoms and tops are basically different, and how
this difference increases the transaction risk of any attempt to sell short at or
near a top. This corresponds to an edge-band short transaction as defined in
lesson four. The remedy is to sell short at mid-band only, but this is easier said
than done as we shall see.

Let us assume that prices have formed a top and are moving down toward a
nest-of-lows. Further, a CCA has been performed and the FLD pattern anal-
ysis has provided a downward price objective with an acceptable gross poten-
tial percentage relative to the present price.

In this example let us further assume that the trading eycle has been identi-
fied. The transaction would seem to be ready for determination of a stop-
loss level and an action signal.

In the case of long transactions, synchronicity of wave troughs and the fact
that low translation is relatively small made it easy for us to set up an action
signal based on a short wave that would give us satisfactory evidence that the
trading cycle’s price low had indeed occurred. However, for short transac-
tions things are not quite so simple. We do not have synchronicity of wave
crests, and high translation can be considerable because the price high assoc-
iated with the crest of any given wave can jump from one crest to the other

of the next shorter wave as a result of only moderate underlying trend. And
unfortunately we do not have the ability to estimate future trend accurately.

 

poasasoy Siu ITV
“buy ‘ssang S4ap¥A E161 © HBLKKO


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,

ry

 

SECTION THREE EDGE-BAND AND MID-BAND SHORT SALES
continued

This means that we are unable to trace the trading cycle’s price high down to
the crest of a short wave.

Therefore, for our short transaction, we must go to considerably longer waves
in order to obtain solid evidence that the price high associated with the trad-
ing cycle crest has indeed passed. Either a valid uptrend line based on the
wave just shorter than the trading cycle or the FLD based on the trading cycle
wave must be broken in the downward direction.

While one or both of these events are necessary to establish a high likelihood
of prices being at or near the mid-band position, neither is suitable as an ac-
tion signal. The reason for this is that, just about the time such a break oc-
curs, prices are ready to rally from a minor nest-of-lows. They must then pro-
ceed to form a minor top — and the ideal time to short is just when this top is
completed. But, it was to avoid the transaction risk incurred at tops that the
decision was made to short only at mid-band!

Nevertheless, the situation has been improved because now we are dealing
with a minor top. As pointed out in the last section, the shorter the longest
wave in the composite wave responsible for forming a top, the less complex
that top becomes. And in the next section it will be shown that the longest
wave in the minor top at mid-channel is at least two waves removed from the
trading cycle.

Finally, the same VTL-FLD technique can be reapplied to the minor top at
mid-channel to further reduce transaction risk if so desired.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section three.
SECTION FOUR THE MID-CHANNEL PAUSE

In section three it was stated that the wave twice removed from a trading cycle
is likely to produce price rallies at mid band. These price rallies are such a
common occurrence that they are given a special name, the mid-channel
pause.

The mid-channel pause is not restricted to downward price movements but,
tends to take place on upward movements as well. Let’s see how and why it
comes about.

Assume a nominal, ideal cyclic model. The Principles of Harmonicity and

Page $4—

 


 

TTITITITT CYELITES

 

       

o

"baosoren ced

 

SECTION FOUR THE MID-CHANNEL PAUSE continued

‘Synchronicity insure that a given wave, the twenty-week wave for example, will
have troughs simultaneously with the ten-week, five-week and all shorter
waves.

paaasay SIS ITV

-auy S504 S19PE] L61 O MBIUKdOD,

Now focus your attention on the sequence of events that follows such a nest-
of-lows. When the twenty-week wave is forming a crest, the ten-week wave is
at its trough. Thus, midway between twenty-week troughs is a composite-wave
dip caused by a ten-week wave trough. Therefore, as the composite wave
climbs from a twenty-week trough, it is headed toward a high associated with
the ten-week wave crest.

 

At the same time, the five-week wave has gone through an entire cycle and is

back toa trough. This five-week trough occurs just one-fourth of the way

along between twenty-week troughs and midway between composite wave

Iows and highs. In this example, when prices have moved up from the twenty-

week trough to the composite wave high associated with the first five-week ( )
crest, it is the decline into the first five-week trough that forms the mid-chan-

nel pause.

 

Exactly the same line of reasoning can be used to establish the existence of a
mid-channel pause on the downside. Further, there are similar pauses for

all trading cycle selections where the period ratio of successive shorter waves is
one-half, And we have just seen that, as previously stated, the mid-channel
pause is caused by the shorter wave just twice removed from the trading cycle.

The situation just described was for ideal and perfectly Harmonious and Syn-
chronous waves, but as we know, the waves in price movement vary consider-
ably from ideal. Nevertheless, the mid-channel pause is a very familiar
occurrence in price movement and is the basis for the rule never to short on the
action signal that indicates a trading cycle is past its crest.

‘You should turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section four.
SECTION FIVESPECIAL IDIOSYNCRACIES OF SHORT SALES

Short-selling is an ingenious method for making money while prices are fal-
ling, But a price is paid for this convenience in the form of several drawbacks
that do not apply to long transactions.

In general, a short transaction is more convenient in the case of commodities

Page BS


 

1973 Traders Press, Ine.
‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright

 
 
 
 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES |
TRAINING | || 7
COURSE® L| |||

SECTION FIVE SPECIAL IDIOSYNCRACIES OF SHORT SALES

‘continued
than in the case of stocks. This is true because of several peculiarities of short
sales in the stock markets.

A stock cannot be sold-short until a 1/8th-dollar up-tick in price has taken
place. The practical result of this requirement is that transaction entry can
sometimes be obstructed. For example, prices may generate an action signal
by downside movement, then continue down well past the minimum price

at which you are willing to sell before an up-tick occurs. In circumstances
such as this a perfectly valid transaction opportunity may be lost completely.

You should also know that while you hold a short position in a stock you will
be required to pay (to the stockholder from whom you have borrowed the
stock) any dividends that the issuing company may declare.

Further, a transaction analysis may be prepared and an action signal noted,
but all to no purpose when it is found that no stock is available to be borrowed
and therefore the transaction cannot be completed.

These particular peculiarities do not affect a commodity short transaction,
but there are others that affect both stock and commodity shorts.

For example, to achieve a given percentage price change, prices must move
down more price units for a short transaction than they must move up for a
Jong transaction.

Also, it is theoretically possible in a short transaction to lose more capital than
is invested, but this is not possible in a non-margined long transaction.

These special short-transaction considerations must be kept in mind and ac-
counted for in planning but do not seriously affect the desirability of

short transactions. There are market conditions in which the investor would
be relegated to total inactivity if the short-sale process were not available.

Please return to the text now at section five for a study summary of these
special short-sale considerations.

SECTION SIXHOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES
For some time we have been holding off on any discussion of fundamental
factors in relation to price movement. But your background in cyclic theory

has by now been developed to the point where such a discussion can be under-
taken.

 

Page 86


—— Page 87

t

it

TTT

i
i

 

babserte script

 

SECTION SIX HOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES
continue

The fact that the subject of fundamentals is brought up in a lesson that is
otherwise devoted to short selling is purely coincidental, for the impact of
fundamentals on price movement is equally important to both long and short
transactions, This should be kept in mind during the following discussion.

In lesson number one it was learned that all price action of all equities consists
of the sum of a number of non-ideal price waves.

This is truly an incredible concept when you stop to think about it. It certainly
runs completely counter to widely held academic opinion that the price move-
ment of negotiable equities is almost totally random in nature — meaning
that there is no discernible order to price variation. Even at this early stage in
your studies of cyclic concepts, you have had enough experience to know that,
‘a very great deal of order exists in price movement.

Further, the Principles of Commonality, Cyclicality, and Summation appear,
at first glance, to make no allowance for the possible effects of such funda-
mental considerations as crop failures, dividend records, earning potentials,
etcetera.

Itis indeed true that the basic cyclic concepts do not admit the existence of
more than a negligible amount of random, or non-ordered price movement.
Itis further true that, to the extent of the knowledge currently available about
cyclic processes, price movement does consist virtually entirely of the sum of
the kinds of waves studied in previous lessons. However, it does not follow
from cyclic theory that fundamental factors do not affect price movement,

for they do.

You may well wonder how prices can consist entirely of the sum of waves
and still be affected by fundamental factors. The Principle of Variation pro-
vides the answer to this question.

As you will recall from lesson number one, one of the several manifestations
of the Principle of Variation takes the form of a smooth change in the ampli-
tude of a price wave as time passes. There is considerable evidence to support
the theory that a good part, if not all, of this amplitude change with time is
due to fundamental considerations.

However, because the amplitude change takes place so slowly, this type of
fundamental interaction with price waves has little to do with practical trading

 

rystssdory

possay WRT

ou ‘ssa4d S1OPBAI, €L61 O


‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press Ine

CYCLITEC [JJ] TT

SERVICES | | doses uu tu
TRAINING ||| 48 ott
coursed |1)1/)////)///I/

 

 

SECTION SIX HOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES

continued

situations beyond increasing the complexity of cyclic analysis. Of far
greater importance are certain other fundamental reactions with cyclicality

which are readily provable and directly influence transaction decisions based
on cyclic concepts.

There are three categories of such interactions that the cyclic analyst must
be aware of:

One: Something very drastic may happen to the company that has issued
astock. The disclosures related to Equity Funding in the early
months of 1973 are an excellent example of this type of event.

In cases like this, trading on the exchanges is often halted in the
issue. If trading is resumed at a later date, the issue may be found of-
fered at a drastically changed price that seems to have little or no
connection with cyclic concepts. However, after trading is resumed,
it will be found that cyclic price movements are continued just as if

the large price transient directly caused by a fundamental considera-
tion did not exist.

This kind of occurrence can be unfortunate as far as the individual
or organization caught by it is concerned. Some measure of protec-
tion against this kind of happening, which fortunately is the excep-
tion rather than the rule, is provided by strict observance of stop-
loss levels. However, in a sufficiently traumatic case that results in
panic selling, even stop-loss levels will not protect against large loss-
es. And of course if trading is stopped, stop-loss orders cannot be

executed until trading is resumed at what may be a drastically lower
price.

There are only two investment strategies that really protect against
such events. One of these is to select issues of companies that are un-
likely to be involved in drastic and scandalous events. The other is
more certain and invokes the protection of diversification, the plac-
ing of investment ot trading funds in several equities instead of a
single one. These subjects will be discussed in more detail in later
lessons.

Two: The second type of fundamental interaction with price waves is

— —— Page 8


 

Page. 89.

 

CYCLITEC
SEAVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

SECTION SIX HOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES
Continue
exemplified by the behavior of the Dow Jones Industrial Average just

following President Nixon's announcement of Phase One economic
controls in 1972.

‘The immediate result was an unprecedented 17-point gap to the up-
side in this widely followed index.

What happened from a price wave viewpoint was that several rather
short waves, of the order of 10 to 20 days in period, increased rapidly
and temporarily in amplitude, then subsided equally as quickly.

 

Interestingly, if you were to conduct a cyclic analysis on this average
for that time, you would find that this dramatic fundamental effect
occurred exactly when a significant nest-of-lows was to be expected.

Noone knows, as yet, why this should be, but time after time you will
find that fundamental events appear to occur just at the right time
to seem to initiate a price move that is already to be expected from
cyclic considerations.

In any case, this is a typical example of fundamental interaction
with price waves. For a short time interval, several adjacent price
waves develop greatly increased amplitude, after which the effect
damps out and normal wave amplitudes are restored.

Three: The third way in which fundamental events interact with price waves
is more long lived.

This one has to do with an increase or decrease in investor interest
in an equity.

Ifa fundamental event causes increased interest so that volume ex-
pands, it will be found that all price waves in the cyclic model start
to increase in amplitude — proportionally. That is, by the time the
10-day wave has doubled in amplitude, so has the 20-day, 40-day
and so on. The result of this, when the component waves are sum-
med, is very much like trend. In fact the term pseudo trend is com-
monly used to describe the effect on prices. Cyclic behaviour persists,
throughout; nests-of-lows are formed, time-translation effects oc-
cur, and the basic cyclic principles continue to apply — but price

 

 

ver eg, PMP SREY
‘Uy "594d S39PEL] E161 @ IYBIsKdoD,


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc,

All| Rights Reserved

LESSON

 

SECTION SIX HOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES
continued
movement proceeds as if a very steep trend had developed. Most
commonly, this pseudo trend is in the upward direction.

As volume interest subsides, the amplitudes of all price waves grad-
ually diminish to former values, resulting this time in a pseudo
trend in the opposite direction.

Several conclusions can be drawn from these observations.

First of all, itis now apparent why it can be said on the one hand that price
movement consists entirely of the sum of waves — and on the other hand that
fundamental events can and do affect price movement. Both statements are
true because the entire effect of fundamental events appears as a change in
amplitude of wave components!

Secondly, it is clear that transaction timing implications based on cyclic con-
cepts are nor altered by fundamental events. For timing to be changed, either
wave period or phase or both would have to change in response to fundamen-
tals, The facts are that neither wave periods nor phases are so altered; wave
amplitude is the only cyclic variable influenced.

The practical effect is to free the cyclic analyst from concern as to the impact
of a wide following of traders and investors using cyclic methods. Such a wide
following, even if concentrated in only a few equities would only constitute a
change in volume interest for those equities. The result of this would be alter-
ed wave amplitudes resulting in pseudo trends — but no change in the times
when price movement undergoes reversal. Furthermore, any pseudo trend
developed in this manner is in the correct direction for a cyclic trade, and
could not help but benefit the traders involved.

  

These considerations account for the apparent lack of relationship between
price histories and national or world historical events. What is seen in price
histories is simply a record of wave activity, occasionally amplified by funda-
mental interactions.

With a little practice you will learn to identify the visual effects in price move-
ment of fundamental events through the pseudo trend effect. Any time strong
trend exists without apparent cyclic reason, wave amplitudes are undergoing
rapid change in response to fundamental considerations. Pseudo trend can be

ge 90


Il] CYCLITEC )
| |)||| SERVICES ,
riPt\| TRAINING

LL] CoURSEO

 

SECTION SIX HOW FUNDAMENTALS AFFECT PRICE WAVES
continued

used to advantage by the skilled analyst, but the process of doing so is tricky,
and these situations are best avoided by the average trader and investor.

poasosoy s1y8 IV

“aay 38004 SpE] E161 O YBEKEOY

Please turn your tape unit off now, and return to the text at section six for a
summary and examples of how fundamental events influence price waves.

SECTION SEVEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE
In the lesson number four workshop each individual step of the analysis was
described in great detail since it was the first complete analysis performed.

In this and following workshops, progressively less detail will be presented on
individual analysis steps so that the number of analysis situations can be in-
creased. However, in each case, correct results will be presented — and you
should first complete your own analysis, then check the results against the
correct ones shown until you understand how they were derived.

‘This brings to mind an important point. For any given situation, you should
first assume that no prior knowledge is available on the equity under consid-
eration. Thus, the analysis proceeds wholly on the basis of information con-
tained in the Cyclitec weekly and daily charts that are most up to date.

This admonition is given because there is a natural tendency on the part of a
cyclic analysis newcomer to check results against a large amount of past data.
Unfortunately, the Principle of Variation can cause an increase in confusion
over long spans of time. For this reason the Cyclitec charts present a care~
fully chosen amount of data which is sufficient for analysis purposes, yet not
so large as to cause confusion.

Remember that the only purpose of cyclic analysis is to align in your favor
the probabilities of being right on a transaction decision. A conscientious cyc-
lic analysis will do this as well as it can be done on just the amount of data
presented on the Cyclitee charts.

However, operating in this manner can result in successive analyses of a given
‘equity that are slightly different from each other. This is normal, and should
not be cause for alarm. Simply complete each analysis in a workmanlike man-
ner and make transaction decisions based on the results of each as if no pre-
ceding analysis exists.

Page 9


Rights Reserved

 

‘Lopyrignt © 1973 Iraders Press, Ine.

 

greures
TAAINING | Casselte sc
COURSEO |. | LHL

SECTION SEVEN WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued

The first unit of this workshop consists of a scan of Loew's Corporation stock
as of 29 December 1972. Use VRS and RS analysis methods to answer the
question: “Is this equity a CCA candidate at this time?”

Turn your tape unit off now and return to the text at section seven for this
exercise.

SECTION EIGHT WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO

In the discussion of workshop unit number one you were introduced to the
concept of using trend analysis during rapid-scan processes. Further, a short-
ened version of such trend analysis was presented that does not require the
existence of current cyclic model.

This is a very powerful concept and you will be applying it regularly from now
on. However, do keep in mind that during rapid-scan processes the only intent
is to determine whether or not a situation warrants further analysis effort. Do
not make the error of forming actual transaction decisions based on such
primitive estimates as those arrived at during VRS or RS.

  

You should also note from unit one how a nearly complete cyclic status esti-
mate was derived with an absolute minimum of wave trough location effort.
Itis the concept of comparing past FLD price projections with actual price

moves that makes this possible — and the potency of this technique should
never be overlooked.

You have now made the decision that LTR, as of 29 December 1972, is deserv-
ing of a CCA. Please turn your tape unit off now, and return to the text at
section eight for workshop unit number two.

SECTION NINE WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE

In workshop unit two, a CCA confirmed that LTR is a short-sale candidate.
An expected downward move to the objective price of 30 will be driven by
sigma el, the 18-month wave, and the second cycle of the 9-month wave.

Although the 9-month wave becomes the actual trading cycle for the potential
transaction, it is important to note that the downside move is predicated on
the assumption that the 18-month price high has already occurred. In fact the
price rally of the last several weeks must be considered to be the mid-channel
Pause on the downside for the 18-month wave,


 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

SECTION NINE WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE continued
‘The principal requirement for a short transaction has, therefore, been met in
that the transaction would be a mid-band short so far as the 18-month wave
is concerned.

We must now complete the analysis by determining the stop-loss level, the
minimum sell-short price, the correct action signal, etcetera.

Please turn your tape unit off and return to the text for workshop unit number
three where these and allied considerations will be discussed.

SECTION TEN CONCLUSION

You have now been exposed to the process of setting up a transaction using
cyclic concepts — both on the long and the short side of price movements.
Furthermore, most of the cyclic concepts and tools that you need have been
touched upon at least once.

However, there is much more to trading and investing than just pre-transaction
analysis, and you have still to acquire the needed experience in handling a
wide variety of situations. For these reasons, it is well to repeat at this time the
warning that you should not yet attempt actual transactions in the market.

 

Nevertheless, you have reached a rather erucial point in your self-training
program. In order to handle the material in the following lessons with a mini
mum of frustration, itis essential that the basic concepts of the first five les-
sons be at your fingertips for ready use.

For this reason, no additional workshop units are provided in this lesson. In-
stead, an expanded summary and self-examination are included. You should
expend considerable time on these, reviewing the material in past lessons as
required to assure mastery and understanding.

Please turn your tape unit off now and return to the text summary for study
and review.

Paaosay swiary ty

“DUT ‘s504q 539PBAE ELET @ AHBLIAdOr)


 

J.M. Hurst
Cycles Course

LEsson 6:
Cyclic Analysis
During a Transaction

TRADERS PRESS, INC?
PO Box 6206
Greenville, SC 29606

Serving Traders Since 1975

 

 

 


CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

CYCLIC ANALYSIS DURING
A TRANSACTION

PLEASE INSTALL THE LESSON NO. 6 CASSETTE IN YOUR TAPE UNIT
AND TURN THE UNIT ON


 

 

Data and materials are furnished by CycliTec Services to subscribers for their private
use. Information and opinions, expressed or implied, are based on techniques and/or
sources believed to be reliable, but accuracy or completeness is not guaranteed.
Principals of or persons or entities affiliated with or having an interest in CycliTec
Services may, from time to time, prior and/or subsequent to the dissemination of data
and materials relating to specific securities, hold interests in said securities.

 

CycliTee Services is registered as Investment Adviser with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Investment Adviser Act of 1940.

 

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.
‘All Rights Reserved

 


CYCLITEC LESSON
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO©

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

2, Making the Most of Commonality ...

  

3. Golden Fact and Fiction
4, The Role of the DJIA in Cyclic Analysis ..

 

S. On Track or In Trouble and What to Do
About It

 

6. Workshop Unit Number One
7. Workshop Unit Number Two

 

8. Workshop Unit Number Three .............. Page 49

9. Workshop Unit Number Four .

 
   
 
 

 

Summary ..
5 Glossary ..
i Self-Examination...........00s200ceeceeeseeree
ft Self-Examination Answers......2...cs00eceeee00e
é z Cassette Script
z

Copyright

ite i.

 


 

2

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

6-1. Weekly Chart of CDA
6-2. Weekly Chart of CQ .
6-3, Weekly Chart of FT
6-4, Weekly Chart of GLM
6-5. Weekly Chart of HEC
6-6. Weekly Chart of ITK .
6-7. Weekly Chart of LTR
6-8 Chart Paper ..

6-9. Weekly Commonality Phasing Model .

6-10. Weekly Chart of FCI with
‘Commonality Model

6-11. Weekly Chart of FLE with
Commonality Model

6-12. Weekly Chart of DJIA with
Commonality Model

6-13. Monthly Chart of DJIA ....
6-14. Monthly Chart of DJIA with FPA
6-15. Weekly Chart of FLE
6-16. Daily Chart of CDA

6-17. Daily Chart of CQ
6-18. Daily Chart of FT ..
6-19, Daily Chart of GLM

AT a

   
    
  

 

 

  
  
 
 
   


 

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

6-20.
6-21.
6-22.
6-23.
6-24,
6-25.
6-26.
6-27.

6-29.

6-30.

6-31.
6-32.

6-33.

6-34.

6-35.
6-36.

6-37.

 

Daily Chart of HEC . Page
Daily Chart of ITK.. . Page
Daily Chart of LTR Page

 

Chart Paper .. Page

Daily Commonality Phasing Model ....

 

Page

 

 

 

 

 

 

Split Daily Commonality Phasing Model... .Page
Transaction Analysis Form -Page
Weekly Chart of FCI for 6 July 1973 . Page
Daily Chart of FCI for 6 July 1973 . Page
Weekly Chart of FCI for 6 July 1973

with CCA y Page

Daily Chart of FCI for 6 July 1973
with CCA ....-...

Daily Chart of FCI for 27 July 1973

Daily Chart of FCI for 27 July 1973
with Annotation ... :

Daily Chart of FCI for 17 August 1973

Daily Chart of FCI for 17 August 1973
with Annotation

Daily Chart of FCI for 7 September 1973 .

Daily Chart of FCI for 7 September 1973
with Annotation

Daily Chart of FCI for 28 September 1973 ..Page

 
 

 

 

 

 

Page i§ $$ — — <<

43
44
45
46
47
48
54
55
56

57

58
"4

75
76

 

79

 

Paaiasay siyany ny

S
3
:
3
z
z
¥
i

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

 

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

6-38. Daily Chart of FCI for 28 September 1973
with Annotation ...

6-39. Daily Chart of FCI for 19 October 1973
with Annotation ...

 

 

——_—.s $< ee iy


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

 

eT

 

 

ong) Section ane

 

REVIEW
© This is the half-way point in the Course. It is
the material and concepts in proper perspective.

important at this time to have

  

@ So far you have:

1. Verified the existence and characteristics of price waves for yourself
2. Learned how to search for transaction opportunities

3. Been exposed to the methods and techniques used to evaluate trans-
action nearness and risk

4. Learned how to set up and evaluate both long and short transactions,
in advance of price moves.

© You should also have a good feel by now for what cyclicality can and cannot
do for you. It does not provide a positive assurance of profit on each trans-
action, but it does provide a strong indication as to the most likely future
course of price movements.

© The remainder of the course will provide needed additional experience
in cyclic analysis; will show you how to behave during a transaction; will
describe the best ways to apply cyclic concepts in portfolio management;
and will cover numerous techniques and bits of knowledge that are useful,
but do not fall easily into any broad category.

 

© In lesson five, price tops and short transactions were studied. You learned
that price tops are basically different from price bottoms, and you learned
how the combined effects of the Principles of Harmonicity and Synchro-
nicity account for this.

© The phenomena of the mid-channel pause was discussed. This is a price
pause or double reversal near the center of the price move based on a given
trading cycle. The mid-channel pause is caused by the shorter wave twice
removed ftom the wave on which the trading cycle is based. The mid-chan-
nel pause does not occur in the rare case in which the trading cycle and the
two next shorter waves have periods that are not related by a ratio of 2 (for
example, the 9-year, 54-month, and 18-month waves).

 

© Price tops are continuously forming. A price top is formed at a mid-channel
pause, for example, which is part of a still longer top, etc. For meaningful

 

Page I.

 


Oo

_ section one

REVIEW continued
discussion and interpretation, the price top must be associated with the

longest wave involved in its formation,

poasasay siuna LY
“Duy ‘ss04q S19PEAL E161 @ WBUKAOD

@ Transaction risk is generally unacceptably high for edge-band short trans-
actions. This is because of the inability of the cyclic analyst to predict time-
translation effects accurately across tops. For this reason, short transactions
are best entered at mid-band for a given trading cycle.

© Short selling is an effective and useful process, but it is characterized by
several idiosyneracies that must be taken into account. These include:
1. A1/8th-dollar price up-tick is required for stocks before a short can
be effected.
2. The short seller of a stock must pay any dividends declared during the _
transaction. 4

3. Stock is not always available to be borrowed at the time a short is.
desired.

4, To generate a given percentage profit, prices must move further for a
downside move than for an upside move.

5. More than the originally invested capital can be lost on a non-mar-
gined short transaction, whereas this is not possible on a non-mar-
gined long transaction.

@ In general, commodities are easier to short than stocks since fewer restric-
tions apply.

@ Fundamental events and situations can and do affect equity prices even
though all price movements consist of the sum of the same number and
kinds of price waves. This is possible because the total impact of a funda-
mental event is absorbed in the form of price wave amplitude changes. Peri-
ods and phase are unaffected and consequently transaction timing criteria
remain unaltered.

© The impact of fundamental events on price movement can be classified in
three categories:

1. A dramatic, usually (but not necessarily) unpleasant, change in

uc


LESSON

section one |
©

REVIEW continued

fundamentals can sometimes resul

 

cessation of trading.

2. An unexpected news release can cause a temporary, but sometimes
large, increase in the amplitude of several rather short waves.

3. Achange in volume interest can cause long term increases in the am-
plitudes of longer waves. The effect generally takes the form of a
pseudo trend. Pseudo trend has many of the characteristics of normal
trend, but cannot readily be predicted.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

ht © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyrigt

pe 3


 

2

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

LESSON

 

section two,

On

MAKING THE MOST OF COMMONALITY

© All of cyclic analysis is based upon the eight basic cyclic principles
defined in lesson one. So far, the Principles of Nominality, Harmonicity,
and Synchronicity have been applied directly in the processes of cyclic a-
nalysis, but the most fundamental Principle of all, that of Commonality,
has been largely ignored.

© The Principle of Commonality assures us that identical specific and fore-
castable wave processes occur in all negotiable equities of all types on all
markets of the world. So all-pervasive is this Principle that it is only the
Principle of Variation that prevents the shape of price histories of all equi-
ties from being nearly identical. And, as we have seen, itis the interaction
of fundamental events and situations with cyclicality, causing wave ampli-
tude change, that is responsible for the Principle of Variation.

© The Principle of Commonality can be used directly in cyclic analysis in spite
of the effects of the Principle of Variation. This is done by preparing a
commonality phasing model.

© A commonality phasing model is, in effect, a large measuring strip used to
preserve wave phase and period information from the analysis of two or
more equities. Only the most certain of the wave trough locations are used
from any given analysis. As results are added from analysis of more and
more equities, gaps are filled in and a commonality distribution range is
established for each wave trough position in time.

© A commonality phasing model can be maintained continuously, thus re-
cording the most definitive evidence of wave phase and period from all
analyses conducted. Results can be used from VRS, RS, or CCA analyses,
Dates are recorded on this inter-equity measuring strip so that direct com-
parison with price movement is possible as each new analysis is started,

  

@ Let us assume that it is the weekend following Friday, 29 December, 1972.
The Cyclitec chart mailing (for the stock service) would consist of updated
charts for 9 issues (1/3d of the 27 issues in the Cyclitec stock stable) and the
DJIA (Dow Jones Industrial Average).

© On the date assumed, these nine issues were: CDA, CQ, FCI, FLE, FT,
GLM, HEC, ITK and LTR. For the sake of example, let us suppose that
you have analyzed the weekly charts of seven of the issues, all except FCI

 

ire 1.


 

re

 

Page 5,

1 CYCLI
|| SERVIC

 

 

MAKING THE MOST OF COMMONALITY continued
and FLE. These seven weekly charts are shown in figures 6-1 thrcugh 6-7.
Please remove these figures from your binder now, as well as figure 6-8
which is a piece of blank chart paper.

pauasoy sn IV

“Duy ‘ss94q SHOPRAL EL61 @ WSLIdOD

@ Let us see what a commonality phasing model based on seven of the issues
can do for us with regard to the remaining two issues (chosen for analysis,
last because of apparent ambiguities needing resolution).

@ As an exercise, use the techniques you have learned so far to locate the most
certain wave trough positions of the 80-week, 40-week, and 20-week waves
for CDA, CQ, FT, GLM, HEC, ITK and LTR. Then transfer the phasing
diamond locations to the appropriate positions on the blank grid of figure
6-8 to form a commonality phasing model.

 

© You may find, after the first pass through the seven issues, that your com- ¢
monality phasing model has some gaps where there should be troughs but
where no marks were transferred from any of the charts. If this is the case,
relax your requirements for “the most certain” trough locations a little
and go back through the seven charts, extending the phasing analysis for
each until you have at least two or three marks on the commonality phasing
model for each trough location.

© The commonality phasing model is, in effect, an error averaging device.
‘And while you would like for all the points on it to come from trough lo-
cations that you are fairly confident of, you do need some points at every
trough location in order to have samples to average. So don’t be 100 critical
of your phasing in those areas where you need samples for the commonality
phasing model.

@ Asa guide to the format for your own model, refer to the completed com-
monality phasing model shown in figure 6-9; but do not use this figure as.
an aid in completing the exercise for yourself. When you have completed
the exercise, go through the following discussion and compare your re-
sults to those shown.

© You should have located relatively unambiguous wave troughs at some-
thing like the grid line locations shown in the table on figure 6-9. The re-
sulting commonality phasing model is also shown in this figure as the

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Alll Rights Reserved

CYCLITEC

TRAININ
cau =

    

MAKING THE MOST OF COMMONALITY continued
clusters of marks along the horizontal grid lines labeled at the right with the
nominal 80-, 40-, and 20-week wave periods.

 

© Aswe have said before, different analysts will produce different analyses
of any given chart, but the differences should not be so great as to result in
different conclusions. Similarly in the present instance, while your individ-
ual chart analyses will probably not match the table exactly, your com-
monality phasing model should be very much like that of figure 6-9 in over-
all appearance.

© When you are making commonality phasing models for your own use in the
future, you may want to turn the blank chart paper sideways so that the
Jong dimension is horizontal. Place the phasing marks along the then upper
portion of the paper, starting at the left. This will leave quite a bit of space
at the right to extend the model as time passes.

Also you can cut off the upper margin of the chart paper to make it easier to
align the grid lines of the model with the grid lines of the chart under ex-
amination.

© Figure 6-10 shows the commonality phasing model results superimposed
on the weekly chart of FCI as of 29 December 1972. If you were approach-
ing this issue for the first time, it is clear that a thorough analysis is scarce-
ly needed to inform you of the current wave status. The commonality phas-
ing model has removed the need for much of the detailed analysis on a new-
ly-approached situation!

 

© Also, ambiguous situations are often easily resolved. For example, on this
FCI chart, note the problem of selecting the price low associated with the
18-month nest-of-lows in the vicinity of grid lines 50 to 70. The common-
ality phasing model strongly suggests that the price lows at grid lines 66 and
70 are not associated with this nest.

© This kind of occurrence is not rare at major nests-of-lows. It is the primary

reason why edge-band transactions result in increased transaction risk; and
the longer the period of the longest wave in the nest-of-lows, the greater the

tisk.
@ By using a commonality phasing model, it is often possible to arrive at a
satisfactory current cyclic model without going through a complete formal

pe

fhatne | Section two

LESSON


section two

MAKING THE MOST OF COMMONALITY continued
phasing analysis. For an example, turn to figure 6-11, which is a weekly
chart of FLE with the commonality phasing model superimposed upon it.

© We can quickly see that the left hand three-quarters of the chart matches
the commonality phasing model very nicely. We put in 20-week phasing
diamonds at grid lines 1 and 145, and we see from the commonality phasing
‘model that there are seven samples of the 20-week period between these two
diamonds. This gives us an average period of 20.6 weeks, which we enter
in the current cyclic model table (shown in figure 6-11).

© We multiply the 20-week average period by two to get 41.2 weeks for the
average period of the 40-week wave, and we multiply this by two again to
get 82.4 weeks for the average period of the 80-week wave. These average
periods are also entered in the current cyclic model table.

© Now for the current phase. Here things are not quite so.easy because of the
poor definition of the latest 40-week wave trough in the commonality phas-
ing model. There are only four points for this trough in the model, and they
are widely dispersed between grid lines 156 and 170.

© On the FLE chart there is a pronounced price low at grid line 173. But this
is outside the present range of the commonality phasing model and would
give rather long period samples, 51 weeks for the 40-week wave and 28
weeks for the 20-week wave.

© If we examine the overall price action shown on the chart, it seems quite
possible that FLE is now in a strong downward pseudo trend similar to the
strong upward pseudo trend that existed between grid lines 84 and 142.
Sudden reversals of this kind are quite common in pseudo trends, which is,
one reason why they must be handled with caution.

© The most we can say until we see additional price movement is that there is
a possible 40-week trough at grid line 173. Accordingly, we place X’s on the
chart at this grid line for 40- and 20-week troughs. But we are not confident
enough of this location to use it as a phase reference.

© The price low at grid line 164 also looks like a reasonable possible for the
40-week trough. It falls at about the center of the range in the commonality
phasing model and would give quite reasonable period samples of 42 weeks

panasoy siya MY
“sup ‘ss0aq 519pB4L EL61 @ IHBLKAOLD


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

  

LESSON

 

©

MAKING THE MOST OF COMMONALITY continued

for the 40-week wave and 19-weeks for the 20-week wave. We mark it with
X’s, but again we are reluctant to use it as a phase reference point.

© Our wisest course seems to be to go back to the 80-week nest-of-lows at
grid line 122 as a phase reference for the 80- and 40-week waves and to use
the 20-week trough at grid line 145 as the phase reference for the 20-week
wave.

© Accordingly, we place phasing diamonds at grid line 122 for the 80- and 40-
‘week waves. And we record the current phase of 57 weeks along and the
current status of down in the current cyclic model table.

© For the 40- and 20 week waves, we run up against an overdue situation,
with 57 and 34 weeks along, respectively.

© In section eight of lesson five, an overdue condition existed for the 80-day
wave on the LTR daily chart in figure 5-12. That situation was different
from our present one, however, in that no possibles existed for the over-
due trough location. A rule of thumb governing phase estimation in an
overdue situation was given in lesson five, and that rule is repeated here re-
worded to specify the condition that no possible exists for the overdue
trough location:

When a trough is overdue for a given wave and there is no price low in
the vicinity that is strong enough to be considered as a possible location
for the trough, then the wave phase is listed in the current cyclic model as
elapsed time from the last known trough (this will be longer than the
average period) and the wave status is listed as bottoming. This phase
reference and status are continued until the point is reached when the
elapsed time is equal to one and one-half times the average wave period.
At this point a phasing diamond (with an X in it) is arbitrarily placed one
average wave period from the last known trough and is now used as the
new phase reference. The wave status is changed to topping, in keeping
with the new wave phase.

(As more time goes by, the phasing of shorter waves will probably provide
a more suitable location for the arbitrarily placed phasing diamond by
means of the Principles of Harmonicity and Synchronicity. But by this time


 

MAKING THE MOST OF COMMONALITY continued

the location of this trough will probably be of little consequence because it
will no longer have any effect on transaction decisions.)

@ On the FLE chart in figure 6-11 the overdue situation is somewhat differ-
ent. Here we do have two possible locations for the 40-week nest-of-lows.
We ate therefore justified in assuming that the nest has occurred. Our best
information to date (the average wave period and the location of the last
known low) is used to place X-filled phasing diamonds on grid line 163 for
the 40-week trough and (by Synchronicity) the 20-week trough. The X’s are
left at the possible locations on grid lines 164 and 173 as a reminder that
these diamonds at 163 were arbitrarily placed.

© A wave phase of 16 weeks is then entered in the current cyclic model table
for both the 40-week and 20-week waves. The 40-week wave status is listed
as up and the 20-week wave status as down.

© This leaves the status of 3 Las the only item needed to complete the weekly
portion of the current cyclic model. As an exercise, determine the status of
LL for yourself before reading the next paragraph. Bear in mind that any
pseudo trend present is considered a part of EL.

© A two-finger check of the 40-week FLD quickly establishes that the 40-week
downward price objective has been way overshot by any possible 40-week
trough location later than grid line 157. We feel that the trough has occur-
red somewhere between grid lines 163 and 173, which indicates that ¥L is
strongly down.

© Further, we see that although we are only 57 days along in the current 80-
week cycle, already prices ate lower than the last 80-week low.

@ We therefore conclude that 3L is strongly down and enter the status as
down in the current cyclic model table.

© Thus, by judicious use of the commonality phasing model, we have arrived
at a quite satisfactory weekly current cyclic mode! without resorting toa
formal phasing analysis.

© Itis of some interest to observe the relationship between the commonality
phasing model and the DJIA for the same date. This comparison is shown

a Pge 9

 

pamosey sun ny

“DUT Ss94g SuaPEAL £161 @ IUSLAKdO:


‘section two

 

LESSON

 

MAKING THE MOST OF COMMONALITY continued

in figure 6-12. Note that commonality is just as effective for an average of
many issues as itis for an individual issue,

© You should derive several benefits from this exercise on the commonality
phasing model:

1. A feeling for the really incredible persistence and extent of the re-
markable Principle of Commonality

2. A better realization of the fact that cyclic analysis, properly applied,

can place the odds strongly in your favor on a given transaction but
can never guarantee 100% successful results

An understanding that when working with a stable of equities as op-

posed to a single equity, the Principle of Commonality makes possible
¢ a drastic reduction in analysis effort

An understanding that although the most visually evident price lows

are most often associated with nests-of-lows involving longer waves,
this is not always the case.

© The commonality phasing model is a very powerful analysis aid, and its
use will do much to increase your understanding of basic cyclic concepts.

You should study the figures in this section thoroughly to be sure you com-
pletely grasp the concept and applications; then,

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

‘All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.


€ €

 

 

WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 WEEKLY VOL=2.4

FIGURE 61
WEEKLY CHART OF CDA

 

 

10 20 30 4b sd 6b 70 80 90 1d0 140 120 130 140 190 160 140 160 180 ado
yy tab AN
rrenprhtrtthhteett ht aM Tt
3 10 tS 0 eS 3D 3 6 70 78 60 es a0 as

wees


 

€ € €

ca WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 WEEKLY VOL=1.8

 

 

jo 180 ido 260

 

3340 45 50s


 

 

 

WEEKS


€ € €

 

GLH WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 WEEKLY VOL=3-1

FIGURE 64
WEEKLY CHART OF GLM

 

\

 

"ab 20 3p 4b 8b 8 7) 8D 80 ido iio 120 130 140 160 160 170 160 180 200

12

5 1D 15 20 25 30 35 4D 45 50 55 60 65 7D 75 80 85 OD 95
WEEKS

 

 


€ €

 

WEEK ENDING:

 

30

40

29 DEC 1972

WEEKLY VOL=4.9

FIGURE 65
WEEKLY CHART OF HEC

»

8b

 

96 100 110 120 180 140 160 180 170 180 190 200

45 (50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 OD 85
WEEKS

 


€ € €

 

+ 29 DEC 1972 WEEKLY VOL=2.7

 

 

is

                      

' nab iL

 


€

€

 

WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972

 

WEEKLY VOL=2.9

eS eu eR e« B® f£ # # & Bor 5 & 8 wf eg og gs

= R


   

FIGURE 6
CHART PAPER wfoveaetn ro -

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FIGURE 6+
WEEKLY COMMONALITY PHASING MODEL
op 0 179 Tne Prom
he har
Gas WOeATON FOR

swe [R0Wion] Wien 2Wien

con [1a 9 mz | ww, Hy, tm Tm

co fu rm)ie, a, 1m, |e an as, tas, ta ae

ed 51,7, 8, 6, 12, 1, 18

oun | 4612] 14,22, 70 | 1, may ath, 12, Mo, 1

wee}, vo] a, a, 01m | a, a, a, ow, ae

mm [sam] ass, am fans, tas a, us

ed
iret (Payspgeier arcu
: DEC 72

dove J ew

1, bs won I hos ow
fo. ake dove L won | J fos sow aw
Fab b> sb 4d 50 5b 7d bab ado fo ado ado ado 180 180 140 ido ao edo


 

€ € €

 

FCI WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 WEEKLY VOL=3.5

   

FIGURE 6:10
WEEKLY CHART OF FCI WITH COMMONALITY MODEL

 

 

IS

5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 (50 55 60 65 70 75 80 @5 99 95
- BEEKS


€ € €
FLE WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 WEEKLY

 

 

  
      

FIGURE 61,
WEEKLY CHART OF FLE WITH COMMONALITY MODEL

 

 
 

7 wens | oar
ae tS]

zn

 
 

 

      

 

 

 

 

jew

Mele

dou

 

 

 

10 2 sb 40 sd 6d 7b 8d sb do 110 140 1$0 a0 180 160 140 ado “ido “ado

 

SS 60 65 70 75 60 #5 90 95

30
WEEKS


 

 

fyb ab ph ab ob OBS “Tb “oh "oh “dp Tabs“W “deat Se dared

wml anil

 


All Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

ree

section th

er

 

 

GOLDEN FACT AND FICTION

© It is commonly assumed that the price of gold shares goes up as the price
of most other stocks goes down, and vice versa. (By gold shares we mean the
common stock of gold mining companies such as Campbell Red Lake Mine
and Homestake Mining.) This is not true in general, but the behavior of
gold shares is slightly different than other stocks from a price wave view-
point — and this slight difference is sufficient to create the impression of
contrary gold price movement.

© Gold shares exhibit all of the same wave characteristics expected in other
issues. The same nominal model applies. Harmonicity and Synchronicity
behave in the same way. And all cyclic analysis techniques may be used.
The difference lies in the fact that gold shares show more variation in
period for long waves (such as the 18- and S4-month waves) than do other
equities. This sometimes causes shorter waves to be temporarily one-half
period out of phase with the same waves in other equities.

© The increased period variation in gold shares can be used to advantage. If
gold share prices complete a bottom or a top significantly in advance of other
equities, funds can sometimes be put to work when they would otherwise be
idle.

© Homestake Mining is a major gold stock, and you analyzed this issue as of
22 December 1972 in lesson four. As an exercise, compare the commonality
phasing model for 29 December 1972 (figure 6-9) with the phased weekly
chart of HM (figure 4-12). Now directly compare the weekly DJIA chart for
29 December 1972 (figure 6-12) with HM (figure 4-12), (Be sure to make the
proper allowance for the fact that figure 6-9 and 6-12 end on 29 December
1972 while figure 4-12 ends on 22 December 1972.) Note as many similar:
ties and differences as you can for yourself before reading on. What con-
clusion do you reach as far as wave action in gold stock prices is concerned?
Can you see why it is commonly believed that gold stock prices move con-
trary to those of other stocks — and why this belief could get you into trou-
ble if you behaved as if it were so?

© Comparing figures 4-12 and 6-9, we see the following:

1, The 18-month nest-of-lows shown in figure 4-12 at grid line 127 com-
pares reasonably well with the commonality phasing model.

Page 3—_—

 


 

section three

GOLDEN FACT AND FICTION continued
2. The 20-week nest-of-lows shown in figure 4-12 at grid line 148 also
compares well with expectation from the commonality phasing model.

paarosry swe HW
“buy ‘sang S9pHAL EL6T O MBKdOD

3. Also, the far-left 20-week nest-of-lows at grid line 2 checks out very
well.

4. But notice the 40-week wave, The 40-week trough at grid line 32. on
the HM chart falls in between the 40-week troughs at grid lines 2-10
and 43-55 on the commonality phasing model. And the 40-week
trough at 75 on the HM chart falls in between the 40-week troughs at
43-55 and 83-91 on the commonality phasing model.

5. This is traceable to the failure of HM to exhibit an 18-month nest-of-
lows at or near what would be grid lines 43 to 56 for the seven other
issues used in the commonality phasing model. Instead, HM formed
its 18-month nest-of-lows at 32, a full 12 weeks before the earliest of @
the other issues studied.

6. This behavior caused the following 18-month wave period to be
long, and the periods of all shorter waves were longer in proportion.
‘Asa result, there were times during this 18-month cycle when HM
prices were going up while others went down and vice versa. Yet, the
overall wave action and characteristics remained the same. Variation
only was responsible for the differences.

© Comparing figures 4-12 and 6-13:

1. This comparison is far more remarkable for its similarities than for
its differences. After making this comparison, how can anyone state
with conviction that gold stocks move contrary to the market?

2. At the left of each chart, prices are descending into an 18-month nest-
of-lows.

3. Prices on each chart then reverse and rapidly ascend to a price high
associated with the first 18-month wave crest in a 54-month wave
cycle.

4, Next, prices on each chart plunge for about 30 weeks into the next 18-
month nest-of-lows, oscillating meantime with the expected shorter
period waves.

PQ 2A


 

r Syeuites TMT
section three.

LESSON
©

GOLDEN FACT AND FICTION continued

5. The price rise that follows is clearly to a 9-month wave crest in both
cases.

© Despite these similarities, the differences are present too — and to a some-
what larger extent than would be expected if a stock other than gold were
under consideration.

1. On the HM chart, prices were falling dramatically (into a 9-month
nest-of-lows) from grid lines 70 to 75. The DJIA, on the other hand,
rose from 750 to 830 during this same period.

2. The decline of HM prices into a 9-month nest-of-lows at grid line 175
was much more pronounced than the similar action in the DJIA.

© From this exercise it is seen that gold prices actually behave very much like

) other equities from a wave viewpoint, but that increased variation causes
local price change that is, at times, in opposition to commonality expecta-
tions. It must be remembered that non-gold equities exhibit the same be-
havior, but not to the same degree.

 

© Once the true nature of gold-price variation is familiar to him, the eyclie
analyst can turn the apparent vagaries of gold to trading advantage.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

ights Reserved

 

2

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

se


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

Al Rights Reserved

section four

 

©

THE ROLE OF THE DJIA IN CYCLIC ANALYSIS

© Because of the Principle of Commonality, periods and phases for waves $4
months and longer that are obtained by analysis of the Dow Jones Indus-
trial Average (DJIA) can be used as an aid in individual stock analysis.

© The Cyclitec Stock Service provides a new chart each week for DJIA daily
and weekly data. Once each month, an updated chart based on monthly
data is also supplied.

© The monthly DJIA chart contains 180 months of data, or 15 years. Thus,
this chart is capable of showing up to 3 complete 54-month cycles, and at
least 1 cycle of the 9-year wave.

© Figure 6-13 is a monthly chart of the DJIA as of 31 December 1972. Com-
plete an FPA on this chart just as you normally would for a weekly or a
daily chart. Write down your conclusions as to the overall cyclic state of the
DJIA as of 31 December 1972 before proceeding to the discussion that
follows.

@ The desired FPA is shown in figure 6-14, and results in period estimates
as follows:

1. 9-year wave: 8.38 years
2. S4-month wave: 49.8 months

3. 18-month wave: 16.6 months
4, 9-month wave: 8.3 months
5. 20-week wave: 18.0 weeks.

© Questions: Did you include the estimate for the 9-year wave in your anal-
ysis? How was the number 8.38 years shown above derived? Is there any
other way of estimating the period of this wave from the chart?

© The 8.38 year estimate was derived above by doubling the 49.8-month
estimate (to get 99.6 months), then dividing by 12 (to get 8.38 years), This
wave period could also be estimated by noting that the pre-dominant wave
on this chart (indicated by oscillations of the Dominancy Envelope center-
line) is the nominal 9-year wave. This locates troughs for this wave at grid
lines 53 and 148, The length of this single sample is then 95 months, or 7.9

 

 

LESSON

Page 25


 

section four —

THE ROLE OF THE DJIA IN CYCLIC ANALYSIS continued

years. The estimate of 8.38 years is considered to be more accurate since it,
is based on a little over three cycles of the 49.8-month wave instead of a
single sample of the 9-year wave.

© In fact, all of the wave periods in the preceding tabulation except that of
the 9-month wave were obtained by this same procedure of applying the
Principle of Harmonicity to a neighboring wave. It is time that you began to
use this method yourself, and it is outlined in the following paragraph for
your convenience.

© The best available estimates of average wave periods are obtained as,
follows:

1, From your FPA select the wave that has the greatest time span be-
tween the endmost phasing diamonds and that is also reasonably un-
ambiguous in phasing. (By unambiguous phasing we mean that there
are few, if any, X's or ?’sin the string of diamonds. The ? is a new
symbol introduced in this section to indicate a trough that is known to
be present because of the Principle of Harmonicity but for which no
corresponding price low can be identified.)

 

  

2. Measure the time span between the endmost diamonds and divide
this time span by the number of period samples that it contains. (Be
sure that the sample count includes any samples that may be delimit-
ed by X's or 7's, Also, round off the division to one decimal place.)

3. Use this average period as a base to obtain the average period of all
other waves shown in the FPA.

Multiply successively by two to obtain average periods of longer
waves, and divide successively by two to obtain average periods of
shorter waves. The only time three would be used to multiply or
divide would be on a monthly chart between the 18-month and 54-
month waves (as in the monthly DJIA chart just analyzed).

© Acomment is in order here regarding the rule that two should always be
used as the factor between neighboring waves except for the 18- and S4-
month waves. Itis true that there are times when the price action on a chart
will visually favor a factor of three rather than two. But you will find that

Page 27.

 

o

paasasoy siya TV

“ouy ‘ssadg Ss9PELL E161 @ 1YSLEAdO-)


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

‘All Rights Reserved

LESSON

section four |
©

THE ROLE OF THE DJIA IN CYCLIC ANALYSIS continued
you always use two, even to the point of placing an X or a ? in the phas-
ing string, you will avoid confusion at current time when projecting antici-
pated nests-of-lows and you will obtain more consistently reliable results,

 

© Asa general note it is seen that over the past 15 years the longer waves aver-
age out to be somewhat shorter than nominal.

@ The wave state of the DJIA as of 31 December 1972 is as follows:

1. Lis up. (Most recent 9-year low is higher than preceding 9-year
low.)

2. The 9-year wave is 30 months (2.5 years) along, hence is strongly up.
3. The $4-month wave is also 30 months along, and is therefore down.
4. The 18-month wave is 12 months along, and is therefore down.

© itis quite apparent that prices are moving at this time into a high associ-
ated with the second 9-month cycle in an 18-month cycle. This 18-month
cycle is the second in a S4-month cycle. And this 54-month cycle is the first
in the 9-year wave that had its last trough in May of 1970. The expectation
would be for prices to form this 9-month high soon, then retreat for some
months to form an 18-month nest-of-lows.

© In actual fact, the DJIA did rise for two more months (to about 1065),
then retreated steadily for the next 6 months (to the vicinity of 865, a drop
200 points).

© As this behavior of the DJIA came to pass, prices of individual equities
simultaneously dropped, many as much as 30 to 70 per cent. Many exciting
shorting opportunities developed, predicted in general by the above analysis,
of the DJIA monthly chart.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

Page 28


€ € €

ourA MONTH ENDING: 31 DEC 1972 MONTHLY

 

80

 

0 200
iS
21

 

 

 

gt
95,

+t
0
MONTHS


 

€ € €

 

DJIA MONTH ENDING: 31 DEC 1972 MONTHLY

MONTHLY CHART OF DJIA WITH FPA

 

 

alll

 

 

 

 

 

lin, lh,

40 45 60 88 60 G8 70 78 80 8S a0 as
MONTHS

 

 

 

 

£8328 2828 8


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

All Rights Reserved

section five ,
©

ON TRACK OR IN TROUBLE AND WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT

© A transaction that has been set up is not normally left unattended to pro-
duce the preset profit or loss. This can, of course, be done — but the degree
of optimization that can be obtained by use of intra-transaction analysis
makes the added effort well worthwhile.

© The frequency with which such intra-transaction analysis is conducted is
largely dependent on the expected transaction turnaround time. For long
trading cycles (of the order of 9 to 18 months or more) analysis on a weekly
or even a monthly basis may be all that is required. The shorter the trading
cycle the more frequently the transaction progress should be assessed.

@ Intra-transaction cyclic analysis employs the same techniques you have
learned for the purpose of setting up a transaction. However, the prime pur-
pose in intra-transaction analysis is to provide a basis for correction of cye-
lic assumptions. This is accomplished by a feedback process. That is, price
move predictions are generated, then compared with actual, subsequent
price action. If the two are similar, then no change in wave status assump-
tions is made. If prices do not behave according to expectations, then wave
status assumptions may be modified accordingly.

@ Intra-transaction analysis can result in several kinds of transaction action:

 

Relocation of the stop-loss level
2. Generation of trailing profit-preservation signals
3. The initiation of special transaction termination procedures.

The first two types of action will be covered in this lesson while the latter
will be the subject of lesson seven.

© When stop-loss levels are changed during the course of a transaction, they
must always be changed in such a way as to further limit possible capital
loss. These adjusted stop-loss signals need not necessarily be a fixed price
level. VTL's and FLD's often serve as the most useful intra-transaction
stop-loss action signals,

@ When the stop-loss action signal is changed during a transaction so as to

tp


LESSON

section five

 

ON TRACK OR IN TROUBLE AND WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT

continued

successively protect more and more paper profits, the resulting action sig-
nals are alternatively called profit-preservation action signals.

© Intra-transaction analysis procedures will be demonstrated in the work-
shops to follow, so no exercise is included in this section.

 

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

2


‘Al Rights Reserved

Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Inc.

LESSON

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE

© The workshops in this lesson are intended to provide you with additional
experience in cyclic analysis; to broaden the variety of situations you are
capable of handling; to provide experience in applying the new concepts of
the lesson: and to introduce the subject of intra-transaction cyclic analysis,

@ You should study the completed examples and associated discussions with
considerable care, striving to identify those areas in which you are weakest.
As such areas are identified, look up and study the appropriate material
in past lessons,

© Do not expect your analyses to duplicate the descriptions in the workshops
identically. However, you should be concerned if your analyses result in
significantly different transaction decisions than those shown. If this oc-
curs, the need for additional study is indicated.

© For this workshop unit, turn to figure 6-15 (a weekly chart of FLE as of 29
December 1972). Use the commonality model for this date (figure 6-9) to
obtain the equivalent of an RS analysis. Do not phase this weekly chart.
Instead, again use the commonality model to arrive at a current weekly
cyclic model and a preliminary transaction evaluation.

Accomplish these exercises before consulting the following discussion.

@ You should have developed approximately the current cyclic model shown
in the following table.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT CYCLIC MODEL
INOMINAT_ ACTUAL PHASE JSTATUS|___FLD NUMBER
EL + [Weeks | pays_]
18M(78W) BA. 52w 4 43.2
9M(39W) eT Low t alo
20W 20-7 low + 3
80D 10.3W ow rc ot
40D
20D
10D
5D

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$$ ge


CYCLITEC D
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSEO

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued

@ The methods for arriving at this model were discussed in the last half of
section two, which you should reread at this time.

poasasoy sug IV

-ouy ‘ssaag Sa9pety E161 @ 1YBUKdO.D

© This accurate weekly current cyclic model was all developed without FPA,
riding on the results of previous analyses. The power and utility of acom-
‘monality phasing model should be quite evident to you by now! Already, in
a matter of minutes, much of the information normally obtainable only by
a CCA is at hand. Let's see what sort of transaction evaluation information
can now be obtained.

@ A two-finger FLD based on the 41.2-week wave is broken to the downside
at a price of about 41 or 42 (between grid lines 155 and 160).

‘The resulting projection to a price of about 33 to 35 was heavily overshot —
in spite of the fact that the 18-month wave was acting upward at this time. a
This confirms the very strong 3L downtrend.

© A two-finger FLD based on the 82.4-week wave was broken to the down-
side between grid lines 160 and 170 (at a price of about 31). This provides
an 18-month downside projection to the vicinity of 13, once the strength is
gone from the current 9-month upward move.

© A big question: How far up are prices likely to go before the 9-month top is,
seen?

@ To answer this, we note from the current cyclic model that the longest
wave for which current trend is likely to be flat is the 10.3-week wave. (In
the very recent past, when the 20.6-week wave was up, there were two up
arrows and two down arrows indicating the direction of the trend underly-
ing the 10.3-week wave.) Thus, FLD projections based on this wave should
be met, while projections from all longer wave FLD's are likely to be under-
shot, reaching only to the 10.3-week projection. Using a measuring strip, an
FLD based on the 10.3-week wave produces an upward objective of about
33, and prices have already reached this objective. The implication is that
the price high associated with the 5.2-week, 10.3-week, 20.6-week, and
41.2-week wave crests has already been seen (grid line 176). If so, dramatic
high translation to the left is implied—again providing information on the
overriding downward strength of 3L in this issue at this time.

i

 


LESSON

 

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER ONE continued

@ The conclusion: This stock should not be bought. An opportunity to short
is probably close at hand. The probable stop-loss level is 34, the short-sale
price is of the order of 22 to 25, and the objective is 13 (or lower, since the
82.4-week objective is likely to be overshot on the downside). The potential
gain is 40.9% to 48.0%. The potential risk ratio is only .75 at a sell-short
price of 22, and is 1.33 for a sell-short price of 25. Since these PR’s are low,
this issue should be shorted only at higher prices that may occur as a result
of the rally from the 41.2-day nest-of-lows that appears to be at hand.

Selling-short at 26 to 28 would appear reasonable — and the associated
PR's would be 1.5 and 2.3.

© The principal object of this workshop unit has been to demonstrate the
value of a commonality phasing model. Results will not always be as dra-
matic as in this instance, but you will always find this concept to provide
significant savings in time and effort.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

1973 Traders Press, Inc.
Rights Reserved

  

—) ge


 

€ € €

FLE WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 WEEKLY VOL=6.5

 

 

wulluwtlillung

 

 


 

1973 Traders Press, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

Copyright

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO
@ In this workshop unit, your experience in the use of a commonality phasing
model will be extended to applications using daily charts.

@ Figures 6-16 through 6-22 are the daily charts for the same seven issues
and for the same date used in the weekly commonality phasing model. Use
the blank chart paper of figure 6-23 to form a daily commonality phasing
model from these charts. Use rapid scan and FPA methods to derive the
needed trough locations. Complete the effort for yourself before referring to
figure 6-24 or to the discussion that follows.

@ Figure 6-24 shows the completed daily commonality phasing model. The
table that is included in the figure gives the trough locations for the individ-
ual issues so that you can check your own pre-commonality-model phas-
ings. Do not expect your results to be identical, but you should have arrived
at results that have the same general features.

© Ifyour phasing of FT resulted in 80-day troughs at grid lines 15, 79, and
149 instead of the 15, 95, 168 shown in the table, do not change your phas-
ing yet, but wait for a further discussion of this chart a little later on in this
section.

@ On several of the charts it was not at all clear which 40-day nest-of-lows
also included an 80-day low. In these cases, the best procedure was to trans-
fer the information on the 80-day lows from the weekly charts.

@ The groups of points on the daily commonality phasing model are not near-
ly as tight as those on the weekly commonality phasing model. This does
not mean that the Principle of Commonality does not apply to the shorter
waves as well as the longer ones. It merely means that over this particular
span of time there was a marked amount of variation present in some of the
issues being considered.

@ Refer back to the weekly commonality phasing model of figure 6-9. The
daily charts under discussion cover the last 26 weeks shown on the weekly
charts, from grid line 153 to 179 on figure 6-9. If we notice the wide spread
between points for the last 40-week nest-of-lows on the weekly commonality
Phasing model and see that this spread covers a goodly portion of the time
span presented in the daily charts, we might very well expect these daily
charts to exhibit considerable variation, If we had selected for the daily

 

LESSON

re


 
 

  

6

 

 

     

Ta HAY
Se TOV Se
POTEET

      

 

CYCLITEC
SERVICES
TRAINING
COURSE©

   

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER TWO continued
charts the time span between grid lines 100 and 126 on the weekly common-
ality phasing model, where nice tight groups are shown, we would probably
find tight groups on the daily commonality phasing model as well.

© Now try something very interesting. See if you can separate the seven daily
charts into two sets, each of which produces a separate commonality phas-
ing model having fairly tight groups of points. Have a try at this yourself
before you read the following paragraphs. (Omit FT if you had the 80-day
troughs at grid lines 15, 79, and 149.) The selection process is greatly aided
by identifying the points on your composite commonality phasing model
according to the chart they were taken from. This identification can be
done by means of color coding or with small numbers (with a color or a
number assigned to each chart).

© The set selection that seems to provide the best two commonality phasing
models is shown in figure 6-25. It is readily apparent that these two models
are more useful than the single composite model. This technique is often
very helpful during time periods when many issues are showing consider-
able variation and the composite commonality model is therefore somewhat
confused.

  

© Ifyou originally phased FT with 80-day troughs at grid lines 15, 79, and
149, now compare the FT chart with your new split commonality phasing
model. The 15-79-149 phasing does not fit into either commonality model.
However, if the FT chart is phased as shown in the table on figure 6-24, it
fits quite nicely into the upper commonality model. And this new phasing is
quite acceptable visually if one rationalizing assumption is made; and that
i that the price structure between grid lines 72 and 84 is anomalous, pos-
sibly due to some short term fundamental factor.

© This treatment of FT illustrates a technique that can be very useful in dif-
ficult phasing situations. That is: From several alternative but not entirely
satisfactory phasing solutions, select the one that can be made satisfactory
with the least number and least drastic of rationalizing assumptions. In the
foregoing case of FT, the assumption that the price structure cited was an-
‘omalous was less drastic than the assumption that very wide variation from
commonality was present.

PLEASE TURN YOUR TAPE UNIT BACK ON.

 

oo

 

paaaasoy s9q3na IY

“U] ‘Ss94g SIPPEAL E161 @ WYBULdO-)


 

 

cu salu ll, wlll tu lll

 


 

 

| Al tt alll

                     

in

 


€ €

 

FT WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972

FIGURE 6.18
DAILY CHART OF FT

“aul, sal

43 g0, 55 60 88

OAILY VOL=3.8

 

7 78 00 BS 90

 

 

 

 

 

IS
eo


 

€ €

 

 

WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 DAILY VOL= 6.0

0180 140 180 160 170 180 Ido 2
telly sillliu..uillll

 


€ € €

 

HEC WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 DAILY VOL=6.2

 
 
   

FIGURE 620
DAILY CHART OF HEC

“ab 2) 3b 4b 8b 6d 70 89D do 110 ado 10 140 ido 160 140 ido 190 ‘20

 

            

 

 

 

alll | ll ul Lbs.

10 15 20 25 50 36 40 45 6D GS 60 65 7D 75 85 BD
DRS,

 


 

 

io 2b 3b 4d sd 80 70 8D 9D ido 10 120 380 140 180 160 140 180 180 200
lll,
medion bE PEELE ins
=

 


 

€ € €
LTR WEEK ENDING: 29 DEC 1972 DAILY VOL=6.2
FIGURE 622
DAILY CHART OF LTR .

 

 

to 2 ab 4b 6D 6d 7d 9d do 140 340 130 140 i180 ido 140 iso 10 ado

Ss
17

5 10 15 20 m5 8D 85 40 4S gD BS BD BS 7 7S BD Bs ao

 


€

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

== Bi
= eae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ate

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tet

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

FIGURE 424

Crt ©1973 Trader Pre a

‘Ania Ror

 

DAILY COMMONALITY PHASING MODEL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘GRDAINE LOCATORS FOR
ime [woo Doion
com lym |x mm wee,
co fm frost fro a, o,
rr fs, 5, a] 15, 39, 95, 194, 8 | 15, a8, 9,
um |25, 6 fas, m4, ae mon, me, ta
we 2. s6 19 mw
gf free ve Paes ses oe, tse a, so, se, ms aes te, as
un fn fe Yo, 32, 97,4, a, se
|
Be et Peep. PSS SE ane haa hag
'
F DEC
E
I
Fo ee wh Be ta . wo
ne ate ! toa Re eee beeen ae mo
i to tb sb 4b so 6b ad 8b sb 1d ato ido 140 140 180 1¢0 140 180 10 200

E

 


FIGURE 625,
SPLIT DAILY COMMONALITY PHASING MODEL

 

 

 

    

we : mao
co

we Fe aao

we a Lhe
in

wae w 1 ‘ a ee 0.

ns we mae

fn oo woe Ee HbA
— — — te

o nee wo ee 220

102 30 4b sd sb ab 80 1d0 110 1d0 ado 40 180 160 140 ido ado edo

 

 


Copyright © 1973 Traders Press, Ine.

hts Reserved

 

2

  

LESSON

section eight,

 

©

WORKSHOP UNIT NUMBER THREE

© In this workshop unit you will set up a transaction for use in the following
workshop unit where you will be introduced to the concept of intra-transac-
tion cyclic analysis. This is analysis performed during a transaetion in order
to minimize transaction risk and maximize transaction profit.

@ Use the transaction analysis form of figure 6-26 and the weekly and daily

charts of FCI for 6 July 1973, figures 6-27 and 6-28, for the following activ-
ities

 

1. Conduct a VRS analysis on both charts and summarize your
conclusions.

2. Conduct an RS analysis on both charts and summarize your
conclusions.

3. Combine the results of the VRS and RS analyses, and summarize the
overall conclusions, giving reasons for each conclusion.

Perform this exercise before reading the following discussion or looking at
figures 6-29 and 6-30.

© Rapid scan methods applied to the weekly and daily charts of FCI for 6 July
1973 result in conclusions as follows:

1, From the weekly chart it is seen that FCI is 84 weeks along on an 18-
month cycle, since past-time FLD’s establish an 18-month nest-of-
lows at grid line 95.

2. 2 Lis strongly up. (There was high translation to the right on the 18-
month wave, and the price high at grid line 160 overshot the 18-month
FLD objective. Also, present prices are at the 9-month FLD objective
ata time when the 9-month low is expected. For the 9-month objective
to be met rather than overshot with the 18-month wave down would

require XL to be up in order to produce a flat trend underlying the 9-
month wave.)

3. FCIis at or near an 18-month nest-of-lows and should not be sold
short. A buying opportunity may be near.

 

 

4. On the rally out of the 18-month low, the 18-month FLD objective
should be met or overshot (>L up). This objective should take prices

Page 49,
Se
