 

 

Astro Cycles:

The Trader’s Viewpoint

by
Larry Pesavento

GEDA. ssandeo

TRADERS PRESS, INC?
INCORPORATED
PO BOX 6206
GREENVILLE, SC 29606

Books and Gifts
for Investors and Traders

 

 

 


Author's Note

"If you learn something and keep it to yourself--it is worthless."
Chinese proverb

You have purchased a book which presents an unusual
approach to market timing. I would like to propose this most
unusual offer to you. You may call or write me with any
questions you may have regarding financial astrology. In return,
I request that you not reproduce this book or any portion of it

without my permission.

 


THE GREATEST WEAKNESS

I can give you the best rules in the world and the best

methods for determining the position of a commodity, and then

you can lose money on account of the human element, which is
your greatest weakness. You will fail to follow rules. You will
act on hope or fear instead of facts. You will delay. You will
become impatient. You will act too quickly or you will delay too
long in acting, thus beating yourself on account of your human
weakness, then blaming it on the market. Remember that it is
your mistakes that cause losses and not the action of the market or
the manipulators. Therefore, strive to follow rules, or keep out of
speculation, for you are doomed to failure.

Hf you will only study the weakness of human nature and see
what fools these mortals be, you will find it easy to make profits
by understanding the weakness of human nature and going against
the public and doing opposite of what other people do. In other
words, you buy near the bottom on knowledge and sell near the
top on knowledge, while other people who just guess do the
opposite. Time spent in the study of price, time and past market
movements, will give you a rich reward.

W.D. Gann in
How to Make Profits in Commodities

 


Table of Contents

Table of Contents ¢ List of Illustrations + List of Tables ¢ List of
Figures ¢ List of Charts + Forward + Preface ¢ Acknowledgements
¢ Introduction

Section One: page

Our Solar System .......sssccesseeccersssserecersesseees 16
Astrology and Our Solar System + Planetary Aspects ¢ Interplanetary

lic Periods + The Zodiac + Signs and Houses + Strength of Houses

+ Eclipses ¢ Equinoxes and Solstices ¢ Retrograde Motion + Lunar
Phenomena ¢ History of Astro-economics ¢ Fibonacci and Planetary
Cycles
Section Two:

The Ephemeris .........sesesseseerees

The Ephemeris Explained + Key to the Ephemeris + Ephemeris
Examples ¢ Standard Deviation of Aspects

Section Three:

Planetary Aspects & Synodic Periods...

Venus-Uranus ¢ Jupiter-Saturn ¢ Venus-Pluto + Mars-Saturn
Mars-Jupiter ¢ Venus-Jupiter + Saturn-Uranus:The Major Economic
Cycle + Jupiter-Uranus ¢ Mars-Uranus + Wheat (Mercury-Jupiter
Saturn) + Combust

Section Four:
The Stock Market 1987-1989 ..........sssesceseeeeses 132
The 1987 Top in the Stock Market 1987 + Dow Jones Industrials--The

1974 Bottom # Venus in 1988 + Other Planets in 1988 + A Replay of the
Great Crash

 


Table of Contents (continued)
Section Five:

Trading with Astro-cycles.........ssesessssseseesseees 136
The Ten Rules of Trading ¢ The Gartley "222” Entry Technique

+ The 1-3-5 Entry Technique + Astro-Cycle Timing Analysis Sheet_(15/)

+ Danger Signs

Section Six:
APPeNdiX........ssecccesessssccscsesccccsscsersersenseeses] Sd
Astro-cycle dates (The Blue Star program)

Section Seven:
Bibliography ..........scssssssssssseccceececeseeessseees 188

 


 

List of Illustrations

Solar Eclipses and Planetary Positions
Phases of the Moon.

Relative Size of the Planets and Their Orbits
Changing Strength by House

Relation of Signs and Houses
Standard Deviation of Aspects
Venus--Uramus opposition

Strength of Venus-Uranus aspects

S & P 500 Spring of 1988
Venus-Uranus Aspects

Standard Astrological Symbols

List of Tables

The Key to the Entire Interplanetary House Pattern
Interplanetary Synodic Periods
Venus, Maximum North Declination

Moon and Venus Maximum North declination
Parallel Celestial Events 1929-33 and 1986-88

 


List of Figures
Solar Eclipses and Planetary Positions
Phases of the Moon
Relative Size of the Planets and Their Orbits
Changing Strength by House

Relation of Signs and Houses

Pr
; Standard Deviation of Aspects
Venus-Uranus Aspects
i
i

Strength of Venus-Uranus Aspects

i S&P 500—Spring 1988
‘Venus-Uranus Aspects

| Standard Astrological Symbols

 


List of Charts

Heliocentric Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn--Wheat May 1988
Heliocentric Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn—Wheat March 1988
Venus-Pluto-—-Gold February 1988

Mars-Jupiter-S&P 500 weekly

Mars-Jupiter~Dow Jones 1986

Heliocentric Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn
Pluto-Retrograde--Gold weekly

Moon at Maximum Declination--Soybeans November 1982
Heliocentric Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn--Wheat Dec 1978
Combust--Soybeans September 1987

Mercury Retrograde & Solar Eclipse--Soybeans Nov 1976
Mars-Saturn--Cattle 1975

True Node plus Moon Declination

Mars Aspects—T. Bonds June 1987

Max. or 0° Lunar Declination—Dow Jones 1986

Mercury Retrograde—Soybeans July 1987

Apogee or Perigee of the Moon--Gold December 1987
Top of 1987 Stock Market

Mars-Uranus—Swiss Franc Weekly

Venus-Uranus—-S & P 500 Index Weekly

Apogee & Perigee—July Silver 1987

Apogee--May Silver 1978

‘Venus-Uranus (Max Lunar Decl.) Dow Jones 1986
Mars-Saturn--Cattle weekly

Venus-Jupiter--March Gold 1983

Mars changing Signs—June T, Bonds 1988

 


List of Charts (continued)
Mars changing signs-December Live Cattle 1987
Mars-Uranus--Deutsche Mark March 1988
Heliocentric Mercury-Jupiter-Saturn-—-March Wheat 1987
Mercury Retrograde—November Soybeans 1988
North Node of Moon--March 1984 S&P 500 Index
Mars Major Aspects--September 1983 T.Bonds
Work sheet with Venus—July Soybeans 1988
Full Moon & Moon Node--Comex Gold February 1988
Quarter Moon & True node--T. Bonds March 1988
Jupiter Changing Signs--S&P 500 weekly
Mars changing Signs--Cattle June 1987

 


Forward

When you finish studying this book you should be able to do

the following:

1.
2.

3.
4.
5.

Know how to use an ephemeris.

Identify key planetary aspects & know how
to use them,

Know where to go for further information.
Identify important lunar turning points.
Refer to the appendix for key dates.

Thave condensed years of personal research in astrology into a
few ideas that will help you in timing the stock market and certain
commodities. There is no "Holy Grail"--at least I haven't found

it--but this will definitely put the probability of success in your

favor,

I cannot over emphasize the importance of mental conditioning
when trading the markets. Trading is 80% mental and 20%
technical. You must learn to "master" yourself using a balanced
mixture of courage and discipline.

 


Preface

The purpose of this book is two-fold. First is to introduce the
skeptic to the uncanny harmonic nature of speculative markets. I
do not know the mechanism of how or why it works the way that it
does. However, I know what to do when I see the phenomenon
unfolding. Thomas Edison once said “it was not necessary to
understand how electricity worked but just that the lights came on
when the switch was turned on." Second is to alert the market

 

student as to the significant astrological events that are about to
occur. The Appendix lists some of the major financial astrological
events through 1989.

In these few pages you are going to be exposed to the
summation of many years of study by three financial astrologers:
the author, Larry Pesavento; Ruth Turner; and Jim Twentyman.
Between the three of us, we reconstructed thousands of price and
time patterns to determine the validity of planetary forecasting.

The man-hours and computer time involved with researching
and testing these tenets was enormous. Two years of full-time
study was only possible because of the spiritual and financial
support of Byron Tucker, Jay Krosp, and Jim Twentyman among
others. They were, at first, reluctant to see the resulis made
public; but, after lengthy conversations, it became apparent that
most people reading this will be too lazy to thoroughly analyze the
material, disbelieve what they see, or some combination of the
two.

T do not believe in the "Holy Grail" of trading systems.

Placing probabilities in your favor is what the intelligent

 


 

speculator will try to achieve. Most speculators would prefer that
someone else do the research that is necessary to test a market
principle or tenet. This book has polarized longtime friends from
different parts of the country to share our ideas and cumulative
man-hours to test these tenets.

A-word of caution should be inserted at this time. A very
small segment of the mathematical mystery of the universe is
presented in this book. The goal was to select certain phenomena
that occur frequently in order for the "trader-speculator" to profit.

Upon completion of studying this book, I feel the reader will,
at least, have "one of his eyes opened" when something significant

is happening in the sky.

 


Acknowledgements

Ruth Miller and Jim Twentyman—Editorial comments

Laurel Beth Hobbs—Illustrations

The Latest Word—Word Processing & Editing

Beverly Smith--Typing and Moral Support

Byron Tucker--Forcing me to start and finish

Llewellyn Publications--Use of their diagrams

Commodity Perspective--Use of their charts.

Neil Michelsen and ACS Publications—Use of their ephemeris

Valliere's Natural Cycles Almanac 1988—Use of their charts

Lambert-Gann Publishing--Use of their graphs

Matrix Software--For developing "Blue Star"

LtCdr. David Williams--for his dedication to Financial
Astrology

Pam Orth--Proofreading.

 


Introduction

One of the recollections of my first stock purchase was its
name, Elastic Stop Nut. It was a tip from one of my fraternity
brother's father. Tip takers become tip givers and I spread the
word faster than Ivan Boesky; the difference was that I knew
nothing, inside or outside. As fortune was smiling on me, the

 

stock rose quickly and everyone that bought the stock on my
advice was now asking me for another tip. It was the early 1960's
and just about any stock you bought went higher. This was a
classic example of a famous saying "Don’t confuse brains with a
bull market." In a mature bull market, investors are sniffing
around for undervalued bargains and this was the era of the
growth stock. Price earnings ratios of 30 to 1 were common.

This process continued through several stocks until the
inevitable "Bear market raid" of 1966. Buying on margin is not
much fun when prices suddenly drop. I soon realized that
investing was more difficult than I had originally anticipated.

I was in graduate school at Indiana State University majoring
in finance and marketing when I got my first taste of successful
investing. One of my professors was a classic chartist and filled
his office with graphs, oscillators and stock data. There was a
huge weekly chart of silver that fascinated me the first time I went
into his office. That chart was about to change my life, and you
will see why.

Numbers have never scared me. Equations were another
story. Seeing this weakness, my professor assigned my MBA

thesis in probability theory. I had to mathematically prepare a

 


formula for beating the Las Vegas dice (crap) game. Knowing
that it was impossible in the long run, I concentrated on beating
the game in the short run. I developed a modified-Martingale
betting system. The odds of the thrower hitting a seven on any
throw of the dice were 6 “to” 1. The casinos paid 5 "for" 1,
which mathematically is 4 "to" 1. This tacit difference in
percentages is one of the reasons why the casinos are so plump
and luxurious. I learned this lesson faster than any other.
Professional gambling never interested me with the exception of
poker, a game of skill that requires both good memory and
patience: two notable characteristics of a successful speculator.
It was during one of my economics lectures that I heard of
“Gresham's Law -- Bad money drives out good money.” If the
physical value of what the money was made of (i.e. gold or silver)
becomes more valuable than its face value, it would be hoarded
instead of being used as a medium of exchange. The year was
1965 and silver was freely traded at around $1.20 to $1.40 per
ounce. It was illegal for U.S. citizens to own gold except in the
form of rare numismatic gold coins. My economics instructor
explained to us that the U.S. Treasury had been making dimes,
quarters and half-dollars with 90% silver until 1964--A classic
example of Gresham's law. He told us that once the price of silver
started to rise, the coins that were 90% silver would be hoarded.
He mentioned one other fact! The U.S. Treasury had outstanding
paper bills that stated on the face “will pay to the bearer on
demand in silver." They decided that anyone who wanted silver

could present these bills to the Treasury and receive one ounce of

 


 

silver for each one dollar silver certificate. The window of
opportunity to make a fast killing was now open! All anyone had
to do was collect silver certificates at $1.00 each and wait to
redeem them for silver at the mint. Our class studied this
phenomenon and came to the conclusion that it was "the goose that
laid the golden egg.”

Over the next few months we put together a buying pool for
silver certificates. We more than doubled our money in less that
one year by taking the silver to Handy and Harmon for cash!

After graduate school, I moved to California and started a
family and continued to follow the markets. It was 1970 and the
commodity markets were staying in narrow trading ranges for
months. We did not have the "exotic" financial futures that the
traders of today can enjoy. Pork Bellies were about as exotic as
one could expect.

I was concentrating in certain stocks and was not doing too
well because the stock market had made a major top. Conti-
commodity had been placing ads in the Los Angeles Times telling
about the coming shortage in sugar. Roy Fassel was the manager
of the L.A. office for Conti. Roy, is the best "pure" technical
trader I have ever met. He is consistently profitable. At that
time, Roy was very bullish on Wheat and his technical methods
thoroughly impressed me. We began buying wheat and the higher
it went the more excited I became. We didn't know until much
later that the Russians were buying everything in sight that was
growing. I was making money every month and my thirst for

knowledge about this “easy” money was quenchless.

 


Dave Nelson was a veteran of 40 years in commodities and
published an advisory service Market Research Associates in
Pasadena, California. His office was next door to Earl Haddady
and Jim Sibbett. Between these three men and Roy Fassel my
initiation into the "technicians" society was complete.

Dave was WILDLY bullish on Soybeans! It was now late in
1971 and success had spoiled me. My speculative positions were
increasing dramatically. To say my confidence level was high
would be an understatement.

It should be mentioned that the people who were working or
trading through Roy Fassel's office were quite special to the
commodity business. Ed Horwitz the "premiere" legal expert in
commodity law in the country, as well as a genius at campaign
trading, used this office. Working and living with Roy was Rick
"Bid a Million" Barnes of Barnes & Co. Rick was the broker for
Goldman's Egg City. He left for Chicago in 1972 and has since
amassed a huge fortune estimated to be hundreds of millions of
dollars. Jay Krosp, one of my closest friends and supporters,
made several million in Soybeans in 1977--sold out at the top and
bought Jimmy Stewart's 11,000 acre ranch in Elko, Nevada. He
still owns the ranch! Jim Twentyman knows more about the life
and theories of W.D. Gann than anyone-anywhere! Several other
people in that office went on to become members of the exchange
or write commodity books. It was really a very special
environment.

I started my entrance into technical analysis with the classic
Technical Analysis of Stock Trends by Edwards and McGee.

 


Shortly after finishing this work I bought James Hurst's The
Profit Magic of Stock Transaction Timing. He was giving
seminars in San Francisco teaching the CycleTech method of
trading commodities. There were quite a few famous people who
attended this event: Walt Bressert of Hal Commodities, Phylliss
Kahn of Gann World, John Hill of Commodity Research Institute
among others. I studied his principles of harmonicity,
syncronicity, periodicity, and half-span moving averages. It made
@ great deal of sense to me so I decided to try it in the market. I
could not lose! It was now 1972 and all commodity markets were
starting up. Inflation was rising, the Arabs raised the price of oil,
and Nixon had taken the U.S. off the Gold standard.

My system of trading was to use the 12-18 day cycle lows to
take advantage of buying opportunities. Unbelievable—- I was
making more money in one month than my father would make in a
year. I had a new house, several new cars, children's education
fund and expensive clothes and jewelry. Humility did not have a
place in my vocabulary. Then came the summer of 1974!

The previous year, soybeans had reached $12.90/bushel—-
sugar at 65 cents--wheat $6.00/bushel. The markets were very
volatile and margins had been increased because of the higher
prices. This did not concern me because I was long and had
plenty of money.

The first price break came in early summer of 1974 but prices
rallied back quickly. Then an interesting phenomenon happened.
The markets would come down and make a 12 to 18 day cycle low

and begin to rally. But the rally would only last a few days and

 


10

then fall quickly to the next cycle low. For the first time in three
years, I was losing! Enter the fall of 1974.

By this time I had lost about half of my fortune. My
confidence level was still high. 1 was long soybeans, soybean.
meal, and cattle. The markets began to collapse in October.
Day after day they went lower for no apparent reason. I did not
use stops! Finally, cattle started going down the limit every day.
After four or five days of limit down moves, I was wiped out. All
my trading capital was gone!

Lao Tse said “when the student is ready, the teacher will
appear!” It was about this time that 1 met John Hilt of Commodity
Research Institute in Hendersonville, North Carolina. He began
loaning me books to read and I started learning about technical
analysis. Since I had no trading capital, I had to gain knowledge
and I studied with reckless abandon. No trading--just reading
and testing. The authors I studied are familiar to most of you:
Elliott, Dunnigan, Wycoff, Babson, Williams, Tubbs, Chase,
Longstreet, Gartley, Livermore, Gann, Taylor, Issac Newton and
hundreds of others. I literally studied everything that I could find.
I will always be grateful to John Hill of the Commodity Research
Institute for aiding me in my search for knowledge. His library is
an endless array of books and systems on trading.

By 1975, I had recovered emotionally, but not financially,
from my 1974 loss. Jesse Livermore was right when he said that
"taking a big loss does damage to the soul." Soybeans were
rather quiet at the $5.00 per bushel level and most analysts were

looking for lower prices. The reason escapes as to why I was so

 


bullish on soybeans but it was the right place to put risk capital.
Ina few short months I had accumulated about $70,000 in profits.
1 was spending most of my free time studying and trading the
markets so I decided to become a stock and commodity broker.
The next six years were very profitable, both from commissions
and trading profits.

On my fortieth birthday, my wife asked me what I wanted
most--my answer was to go to Chicago and trade as a local floor
trader! It was 1982, and the foreign currencies and the treasury
bills were the crowd favorites. I had leased an IMM seat from
Lind-Waldock and proceeded to make money each month by
trading on the "floor" for three weeks and in California for one
week. It was during this stay in Chicago that I met Byron Tucker.

Byron was a floor trader with years of experience in the
markets. He changed my life by coercing me into reading
metaphysical books that I did not understand. I still don't
understand them! However, I became strongly attracted to the
writings of Confucius, Lao-Tsu, and Lao-Tse and eventually the
Kabala. He is by any measurement a "true" friend and has

supported and stood by me during the worst of times. This book

would not be written if not for his encouragement.

There is one advantage of not having reserve capital and that is
it allows one to do research. My interest in astrology started in
1977 white working as a broker at Drexel Burnham. A recently
divorced elderly lady came into my office one afternoon and told
me that she had been using astrology to trade silver. She asked if I
would like to see her do it in real time trading~of course I said

 


 

12

yes. Her orders were unusual in that they were “time” orders.
"Sell silver at 7:02 am on Monday—Cover short at 10:30 am
Tuesday.” Her accuracy rate was unbelievable! I continued to
work with her for about two months via telephone.

One day when I called the lady for her order, I found the
phone disconnected. She had moved and left no forwarding
address. My efforts to locate her were unsuccessful. She had been
living in Santa Monica and went into the Dean Witter office every

a

morning to see how her silver was doing. My guess is that another
broker or investor wanted her advice exclusively.

My next step was to reconstruct her trades "astrologically.*
That was not an easy task! I finally figured out that she did not
trade when the moon was “void of course"--moving from one sign
of the zodiac to another. This worked well until the vertical rise to
$54.00 per ounce. Since that time it has yielded only fair results.

The spring of 1983 was the most significant turning point in
my life. Unfortunately it was a turn-down. I was “bearish” on
stocks in late April 1983. The Standard and Poor's 500 began
trading at the Chicago Mercantile exchange in April 1982. It was
an immediate success--high volatility, low margin, good
liquidity!

My position consisted of approximately twenty short S & P
June futures contracts and short eight 160 June calls. My trading
plan was very specific and I had instituted warning signals if my
assumptions were incorrect. As fortune would have it, the market
started down and everything looked fine. Within a few days the

market had recovered and my position was showing a small loss.

 


13

Thad written notes to myself on what to expect and where my
stops should be placed. Eight years had passed since I made a
“fatal market error. The next one turned out to be a dandy!
One day that spring, the S&P 500 opened with a large gap and
was quickly 500 points higher in a short time. I had this factor in
my trading plan--it was a sign to cover shorts and go long. By
not acting for several days, the lack of discipline cost me
$100,000 plus the damage to my self-confidence.

Another cost involved in the lack of discipline was an
“opportunity” cost, At the same time of my bearish position in
stocks, I was very bullish on soybeans. My capital was depleted
but more importantly I was emotionally drained. Soybeans soared
$3.00 per bushel without me. I stopped trading for over a year
and returned to California as a broker.

Meanwhile, I renewed contact with Ruth Miller, who had
been an old friend of my family for over twenty years. She is a
retired college professor now raising soybeans in Southern
Illinois. One day several years ago she sent me a note in early
summer: “October Soybean Oil wili be trading at 13.80 on
September 15th." I taped the note to my quote machine and
waited until September. As September rolled around, I saw that
Soybean Oil was getting very close to the 13.80 level. When J
called Ruth, she was quite excited and said that she had found
some very interesting astrological trading signals. 1 planned a
trip to the Midwest to leam what she had discovered.

Spending a week with her opened my eyes about certain

planetary configurations that put the probabilities of a successful

 


14

trade heavily weighted in your favor. Before starting to teach me
what she had found she asked that I not divulge her “Corn” trading
system. After she showed me the trade I understood why! This
event pays the rent every month—and it has worked since corn
started trading in the 1800's. Once she pointed out certain things

to me I began to see the harmonic relationship of cycles and
planets. Having the "Blue Star" program from Matrix Software
enabled me to study many different ideas. You will find several of
my worksheet charts in the book. They were included to illustrate
the time involved in working with financial astrology.

It is my hope that after reading this book your interest in
financial astrology will be awakened. You will have to read this
book more than once to understand the unusual terminology in
astrology and the concepts. If you will only follow the Venus-
Uranus aspects presented here, it will return the cost of this book
many times over.

Keep in mind that the most important "tool" in a technician's

briefcase is--an eraser.

 


SECTION ONE:
OUR SOLAR SYSTEM

 


16

Section One:
Our Solar System

Astrology and Our Solar System

"Astrology is the Science of Life's Reactions to Planetary
Vibrations.

Astrology, as the interpreter of Nature,
shows that the world is conducted
according to a well defined plan, that
everything is arranged with wonderful
order, clearly timed with marvelous
precision and effected with unerring
accuracy. Nothing happens by chance;
there are no accidents in the divine plan;
and in reality there is no discord, for
nature recognized no distinctions and
works only for progress through a
refining process which sometimes
destroys only to reconstruct with
improvement. As students advance in
the study of astrology they realize each
in his place, according to an orderly or
cosmic plan; with opportunities to
produce certain resuits, but it remains
for us to determine the quality of these
results by refining our reactions to
planetary influence.

Ree eee

Llewelyn George

 


17

In this book you are going to be exposed to some of the
astronomical (aspects) of the solar system and the astrological
(interpretation) of the houses and signs. There are several
diagrams in the next few pages that will help you picture where we
are and how things fit "harmonically" together. It will be
necessary to be able to distinguish the planets, know the difference
between a”house" and a “sign,” and recognize when important
aspects are forming. Most of this material was researched by
“masters” much more adept than this author, but I have tried to
put it together so that it may be used in trading. I owe a great deal
of gratitude for the use of their graphs and charts. If credit was
not acknowledged, it was done so without intent or malice.

Ibase my astro-cycle system on using an ephemeris. There_

are two ways of looking at our solar system, the geocentric
method with the Earth as the center of the universe and the
anon he Sa as De center of the universe and the

heliocentric method with the Sun at the center. This book will

concentrate on theCGeocentridupproach because I have found it to
———

be most reliable from_a trading standpoint. The earlier

researchers such as Langham Tense] Butaney and others used

the geocentric method. One could argue for years which is
correct. Personally, I follow both but only make decisions based
on the geocentric aspects (the only exception is the wheat market).
Geocentric makes logical sense because the moon is such an
accurate timer in many of the markets.

The reader will find diagrams that will be helpful to

differentiate the planets, houses, signs, and certain solar and lunar

phenomena.

 


18

PLANETARY ASPECTS

There are nine planets that revolve around the Sun: Mercury,
Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto
in that order. Most of the planetary aspects presented in this book ~
will be geocentric (with Earth in the center) Aspects re the
SS
Geometric angles that exist between ¢: The next
paragraph will explain why geocentric aspects are used as opposed
to heliocentric aspects (Sun-centered).
Johann Kepler, the founder of modern astronomy, had this to
say about the aspects; "An angle formed on the earth by the beams
| (rays) of two planets...A most unfailing experience of the
excitement of the subliminal natures by the conjunction and
aspects of the planets, has instructed and compelled my unwilling
belief." Kepler went on to discuss why he used geocentric versus
heliocentric aspects. He considered the earth as “a” center of
influence and not exclusively “the" center of influence. Asa
trader, the geocentric aspects and lunar phenomena presented here
will improve your timing.
A ‘is directly concerned with the birth of a being
——-
(i.e. market). Itis the planetary chart that exists at the exact
moment, date, and place of birth. Natal astrology is one of the
more difficult areas of financial astrology because it is subject to a
wide range of interpretation. It was omitted from the book
because of the complexity in presenting the material without
ql confusing the reader. Geocentric aspects and lunar phenomena
can stand alone as useful tools in market timing. The material was

written to “Keep It Simple" as much as possible.

 


In the next few pages you will find several illustrations,
diagrams and tables that will help the reader to grasp the concepts
with relative ease. The section on houses and signs should be
viewed as an overview. Once your interest in astrology intensifies
you will make a transition into the interpretation of the zodiac,

 


20

OUR SOLAR SYSTEM
Relative Size of the Planets and Their Orbits

 

 

 

 

Planetary vibrations operate according to the grade of
intelligence, whether it be through the seed, the animal or the
buman. The human has the advantage of being able to accept,
modify, amplify, diminish or transform the effect of planetary
vibrations through conscious exercise of his facilities. Man is free
within the confines of Cosmic Law; the degree of freedom he
manifests being largely dependent upon what use he makes of his
intelligence. Hence the study of planetary aspects is important.
Llewellyn George in

A to Z Horoscope and Delineator
Llewellyn Publications

 


22

INTERPLANETARY SYNODICAL PERIODS

Mean Lengths in Tropical Years.

 

Mercury-Pluto 0.24 — Sun-Jupiter* 1.09 |

Mercury-Neptune 0.24 Sun Venus 1.59
Mercury-Uranus 0.24 Mars-Pluto 1,89
Mercury-Saturn 0.24 Mars-Neptune 1,90
Mercury-Jupiter 0.24 Mars-Uranus 1.92
Mercury-Mars 0.27 Mars-Saturn 2.00
Sun-Mercury* 0.31 Sun-Mars* 2.13
Mercury-Venus 0.39 Mars-Jupiter 2.23
Venus-Pluto 0.61 Jupiter-Pluto 12.45
Venus-Neptune 0.61 Jupiter-Neptune 12.78
Venus-Uranus 0.61 Jupiter-Uranus 13.81
Venus-Saturn 0.62 Jupiter-Saturn 19.85
| Venus-Jupiter 0.64 Saturn-Pluto 33.43
Venus Mars 0.91 Saturn-Neptune 35.86
| Sun-Pluto 1.00 Saturn-Uranus 45.36
Sun-Neptune* 1.00 Uranus-Pluto 127.13
Sun-Uranus* 1,01 Uranus-Neptune 171.40
Sun-Saturn* 1.03 Neptune-Pluto 492.32

“Solar combinations in reality are those participated in by the earth

planets meet at

fare (90°),

of time two

     
 

 


    
      

MAJOR ASPECTS
(Venus: 2 Uranus: Ww


25

Changing Signs of the Zodiac

called the zodiac. The following is the approximate length of time
that each planet stays in each of the twelve signs of the zodiac.
These times vary depending on the retrograde motion of the
individual planet.

 

Planet Avg. time in Zodiac Sign

Moon 2 1/4 Days

Mercury 18 Days
Venus 23 Days
Sun 30 Days
Mars 46 Days
Jupiter 365 Days
Saturn 2 1/2 Years
‘Uranus 74 Years
Neptune 144 Years
Pluto 204 Years

 

The financial astrologer should be aware when planets change

from_one sign to another. Special attention must be given when
several planets are all in the same house. An excellent example of
this was August 1987! Five planets were in the sign of Leo as the

stock market was making its top. The October low of 1974 in the
stock market was accompanied by four planets in the sign of
Virgo!

 


 

STANDARD ASTROLOGICAL SYMBOLS

Cagncamd
22-15
/

Cats Coss

Symbol
e

 

THE ZODIACAL SIGNS

Sign

Aries

___ Symbol
=a

x

at _

Sign
Libra
Scorpio
Sagittarius
Capricorn
Aquarius
Pisces

 


27

THE RELATION OF SIGNS AND HOUSES

MIDMEAVEN,

 

EXPLAINING DISTINCTION BETWEEN A "HOUSE ” AND A "SIGN"

Signs are the twelve divisions of the Zodiac. Houses are twelve
segments of space between the Earth and the Zodiac. (Consider the
earth as in the center for the sake of convenience.)

 


 

 

| S&P 500 INDEX

| INDEX AND OPTION MARKET
WEEKLY HIGH. LOW--FRIDAY CLOSE pomODITT PERSPECTIVE/CHLCAGG. TLLIMGIS 6088

 

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Arrows indicate when Jupiter
changes signs in the Zodi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charts courtesy of }
Commodity Perspective

UPHAM JJASONDJFNAMSIASONDGFHAMJJAS

 

 

 

JENA MIS ASG ND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND
tora 1980 1961 1982 1983 198 J


 

fives Pot pO = -
Saag wets T-BONDS Bh 99 slot
ce JUNE 1988 wth? estate

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE
TRADING HOURS @+00_~ 2200 €T

cae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| a i

DAY. LALINE SRE.

 

‘Charta courtesy of
Commodity Perspective

520 27 S10 17 24
wut AUG

 

 

 

 


SEPTEMBER 198

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRAOH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Arrows indicate a major
aspect of Mars in the Daily
Aspectarian:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ Open window with sign
indicates Zodiac change for

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WOsaOHT A TTSEAE T RUSEEDD © 32027 3 1017 431 7 Vea ae 7 Lath anne ea380€ 30H 4 OEE) S
SEP OCT «NOV-DEC JAN FEB MAR-APR HAY, JUN JUL AUG.

 


rig) am lo37he7 63 eee anes!) )ULL

JUNE 1987

CHICAGO BARD OF TRADE
TRADING 18100 = 2100 C1

Open Window indicates Mars
changing signs.
mall arrows are major aspects

of Mars.

 


‘ComODITT PEREPECIIVE/CHLCAED. ILLINOIS 60505 CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wea isizay 6 i202? 3 1oi7z4 sree Planet CINWe2E2 # TIT E S208 ATT IBAE TB TSZE aD SIZ Taee 3 HOTT 203
Nov DEC JAN BONAR © OAPR MAY = JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT.

 


I “~
CHANGING STRENGTH BY HOUSE
f the Houses (in order of the strongest to the so es

‘The Strength of
weakest) is: Ist, 10th, 7th, 4th, 11th, 8th, 9th, 121
Sth, and 6th.

 

4.00
MIDNIGHT

ia
a
>
3

| Eastern
Horizon

 

 

 

 


THE KEY TO THE ENTIRE PLANETARY

       

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOUSE PATTERN
DALY
x i i 413) 2
& 241 412) 11)10}9] 8/7 5 [4] 3
} L 3; 2 )1 | 12]11}10l9 | 8 6,574
3 4]3 ]2 | 1 [12] 14] 10; 9} 8 4 716) 5
tt 5) 4/342 12) 11/10] 9] 8 )7} 6
© 6/5]4),3]2]1/ 12/11/10; 9 | 8] 7
mf
= 7/6/5}4)/3)2]/1 2, 10/9| 8
Th 8)/7)6|5)4) 3), 2] 14112) 11 | 10] 9
x 9) 8)7/6/5] 4) 3/2 1 12) 11) 10
10} 9}8/7/6| 5) 4)342 12] 11
uw —{—+
WR uy 1/9} 8)7/ 6} 5) 413 [2] 1] 12
| # 12] 11)10/ 9/8; 7} 6] 5] 443 42] 1
THE ZODIACAL SIGNS
Symbol Sign Symbol Sign
a Aries =i Libra
3 Taurus Me Scorpio
I Gemini Zz Sagittarius
= ‘Cancer. Vo. Capricorn
Sh Leo xs Aquarius
7 Virgo yt Pisces

 

 

This table lists the planet, house and the zodiac sign that rules each
eignet as interpreted by Luther Jensen in Astro Cycles and Speculative
farkets published by ‘Lambert-Gann Publishing of Pomeroy, Washington.
[t has withstood the test of time.

 


Eclipses (How fo fade Cilirccs)

Solar and lunar eclipses usually receive extensive press
coverage, probably because these events can be seen with the
naked eye in different parts of the world. As a trader, eclipses
Present “special” opportunitites. The neophyte financial
astrologer will get very excited about the appearance of an eclipse
because it is such an important astrological event. One must study
‘market action at the time of an eclipse in order to determine
Strategy-—It was necessary to go back 50 years of the stock market
to ascertain what effect the solar or lunar eclipse would have on
mass psychology (i.e. stock prices).

The following observations will be helpful in implementing
trading strategies for the stock market and grains:

fi) Eclipses are excellent short term change in trend
indicators. The effect will take hold within 2 days
of the actual event.

@ Solar eclipses usually have more effect than lunar
eclipses.

(3) Ifthe stock market does not appear to be affected
by the eclipse it is a ve Strong indication that

trend of the market before

rT r ¢ eclipse will
continue for some time.

 


36

SOLAR ECLIPSES & PLANETARY POSITION

 

q
A total ectipse at A. A partial within B-C.

  

BOP moon. APreans swaLLeR
THAN SUN

   
 

Annular ectipse at A. A partial within B-C.

This illustrates a planet's position during an eclipse of the Sun.
Remember that the diameter of the Sun is 400 times that of the
Moon. It is easier to see how the Sun's rays are affected by an

eclipse using this model.

 


SOYBEANS

37 NOVEMBER 1976
pe neice, emer Chicago Board of Tade

 

Open arrows indicate
Mercury going direct or
retrograde

Dark arrows are solar or
lunar eclipses

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MONE ts tzi7 FINI T SWOT TE WALES F W193} YOU EM 7 MS SIZ WIIG ON AMIS Tw 2279 6 732077
my DEC. JAN. FEB. «= MAR. APR, © MAY) JUNE uly «AUG. SEPT. «OCT, NOV. DEC.

56


THE EQUINOXES AND SOLSTICES

equinox

The plane of the Zodiac intersects the celestial
equator at an angle of approximately 23°28'.
The two points of intersection (A+B) are called
the equinoxes.

 


Retrograde Motion

Retrograde motion of a planet occurs when a planet moves
faster than another planet in its orbit, _I appears that the planet is
moving backwards but, in fact, it is not. Major price changes may

occur in commodity and stock prices very near these time periods.

Mercury retrograde conditions affect the grains and livestock, and_
Jupiter and Uranus in retrograde, affect stock prices, Pluto
retrograde has an effect on gold prices,
» The Sun and Moon are never retrograde or stationary.
» Mercury is retrograde 24 days and is stationary about
one day before and after.
» Venus is retrograde 42 days and is stationary two or
three days before and after,
» Mars is retrograde for 80 days and is stationary two or
three days before or after.
» Jupiter is retrograde 120 days and is stationary
about five days before and after.
> Mercury, Venus, Mars, and Jupiter in retrograde motion
have an effect on price action. Why this occurs is

unknown but the astute trader should be aware of those

times.

 


‘Onwenity HRSPECTIVECHIEACO, LLINOIS wwe

Toe rety
eo ween mide Juda
sil

       
  

   

i
uy
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eat purple

 

 

 

 

 

retrograde

GOL

Arrows indicate the planet
Pluto moving from direct to

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“1
t

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pg get

 

 

i

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charts courtesy of 5
Commodity Perspective

International Monetary Mark
Weekly High, Low—Friday Cl

 

 

 

La Le

 

 

 

JFRAN JJASONCU FRA NIJ ASONO JPN AHS JAS OND IFHANY JASONOJFRAK JIA SON OU FHANJUAS

4978

1979 1980

a9e2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


SOYBEANS
JULY 1987

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE
TRADING HOURS 9130-1818 C1

Open arrows indicate Mercury
going retrograde or direct

Dark arrows are sign changes
in Mercury.

 

i = te
fie 6 13 20-27 S10 17 aa 1 8 1S 2F 2 8 12 10 Teasz 9 16 23 90.8 139 20 a7 4 11 ia 2s te
4 oct ov vec JAN FEB NAR APR HAT

 


 

eT ah TL SOYBEANS
PRUE ly stitt NOVEMBER 1988

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE
TRADING HOURS _9*30 = 1215 CT
ey ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The arrows indicate the planet
Mercury in retrograde or direct
motion.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charts courtesy of
‘Commodity Perspect!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F
VaR 26 a 11 16 25°29 18 23 80-8
MAR APR may

 


SOYBEANS
JULY 1988

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE
TRADING HOURS 9030 = 1815 CH
; mc

Rough worksheet showing
examples of wave analysis and
Mercury retrograde. Notice the

large arrows. They indicate
when Venus changes its sign in
the zodiac. Iti lay
Harmonic cycle.

Charts courtesy of
Commossity etive

613 doa SOIT a7 18a we S12 1 ee FOE 2s OT
JUL Aus. SEP oct Noy

24.
16

 


44

Lunar Phases

i The moon revolves around the earth every 28 days. It moves

from a new moon to the first quarter moon, then to a full moon, —
: then. the third quarter moon and returns to a new
Thave listed the lunar phases in order of importance to the
short term timing of stocks and commodities:
Maximum or "0" Declination
The moon is either at its further distance from
the equator or at the equator "0."
True node of the Moon
The true node of the moon is the only part of
our solar system that turns counterclockwise.
When it moves from retrograde or direct or
vice-versa, it will affect prices.

Oo Full moon~New Moon—Quarter Moon

4. Apogee and Perigee. .
‘Abogee is where the monn is. farthest framsthe
earth and spinning the slowest.
Perigee is ce ont is
earth and spinning fastest.

(5! Moon Void of Course |
1e moon is going from one sign Zodic
‘a Short period of time and

usua: sts a few hours. During this time
markets are unstable and may experience many
wild price swings.

How to Use the Lunar Phenomena in Timing

(a) Look for several lunar events occurring on the
same day (i.e. true node change, full moon,

and maximum declination.) Use any combin-
ations of the five events. Usually you will find

two events at a critical timing day.

 


45

events happen on the same. day as significant
planetary aspects (angles). As an example,

examine the top in Goid on December 14th
1987; y

4
B. __ Itis of great significance when these lunar |
|

1. Venus square Jupiter
2. Moon on equator "0"
3. Quarter moon.

The same phenomenon occurred on the ugh in
the stock market on August 24th-26th 1987.

1. Three major conjunctions p
2. Moon on equator "0"
3. True moon node going direct

The rally high of October 5th, 1987 just
preceding the “panic.”

J. Venus sextile Uranus
2. Moon on equator "0"
3. Full moon i
4. Lunar eclipse—Oct. 7th !
Lunar cycles exhibit an unusual characteristic that bears i
watching. Once the market has shown a tendency to turn on a |
certain phenomenon (i.e. apogee or maximum declination) it
remains that way for at least one or two lunar cycles.
If you will take some time to familiarize yourself with these
ideas, I think you will find that you will be amply rewarded.

“Defy human nature--Do the work! The most important tool a !

technician uses is-—-an eraser.” (Jim Twentyman)

 


THE PHASES OF THE MOON

ITI

#

 

 

-——
—

This illustration shows the movement of the Moon around
Earth. The Moon's movement towards a Full Moon is referred
toasa "waxing" Moon and its movement toward a New Moon f
is called a “waning" Moon. The "Farmer's Almanac" mentions
the New Moon & Full Moon aspects to its readers as an aid in 1
planting and harvesting. Twenty eight days are needed to r
complete this cycle. Fl

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Open arrows indicate
apogee of the Moon

 

 

 

Dark arrows indicate
perigee of the moon

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘Charts courtesy of
Commodity Perspective

ae HE RAY

 

1984 t
demands s on out Fn
Vag a2 ab 813 20 273 1 TBI

ser t Nov

 


S & P 500 INDEX
SEPTEMBER 1988

INDEX AND OPTIDN MARKET
TRADING vouRs_gi3o~ 3018 ct

 

 

 

 

Arrows indicate change in true
Node of Moon "PLUS" Moon
at Maximum or Zero
Declination.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 eyes f
Pr ea ee ee ee ee ed
SEP oct Nov DEC AN FEB MAR APR

 


 

| DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae ve Nh

ans eas ONDE
2027 3 1017 241 e 18 2220 8

AUG SEP oct Nov

  


i ee aad COMEX GOLD
DECEMBER 1987

COMMODITY EXCHANGE.

Arrows indicate Apogee (a) of
the moon or Ferigee p) of the

oon

 


EANS

NOVEMBER 1982

TY FERSPECTIVE/CHICAG ALLINOIS exe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

008 Osr16/e1
pos 40/0482
Eby

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charts courtesy of
Commodity Perspective

fieanag yaezv2n 4 avie2e 0 Bie22 Te le222 6 I2ises LOLs 7 tent at 2b 182390 6 132027 FE WORE Tt We eEaE e Ihe?
my DEC | JAN FES RR APR AY «= JUN JUL IG-<sSEP OCT. =O

43

 


SILVER (NY)

MAY 1!

COMMODITY PERSPECTIVE/CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 6060 Commodity Exchange, Inc. Ni

Arrows indicate apogee--
(Moon is farthest from the
earth).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charta courtesy of
Commodity Perepective

 

 

ge wrasee i320e7 4 11 lees 1 8 iv ae29 § (2 i9ze 2 1GI720S 7 Lz eO EIST | Me2S30 E3207 6 192027 2 WITT 8 TEAS EE
MAY JUN JUL, sUG—Ss SEP = OCT |= NOV. SEC «JAN FEB MAR) APR) MAY. IU

 

cents ven aot oo

830


S&P 500 INDEX *

RARCH 1984
INDEX AND OPTION MARKET #0 RD

== 8 F}e 3S)

50

Arrows show true node of
moon going Retrograde or
Direct. O's mark the moon at
the equator (0°), When they
Occur on same day, stocks
change trend.

 

 

4
i

i

!

lll a u
[|| commosnsrretenyct | Nt i

 

 

 

 


T-BONDS
MARCH 1988

CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE
TRADING WouRS_gt00 = 2800 cr

jy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rough Work Sheet: Open
arrows show quarter moon
with a true moon node change
at the same time.

a
Pay

18 22-20 6°13 20.27 3 10K7 24 31 7 1a 71 28 8 12 19-28
JUL, AUG. SEP ct

 


 
  

COMEX GOLD... gn Tie] |
FEBRUARY 1988 te at

  

 

     
     
 
  

 

 

 

COMMODITY EXCHANGE. INC. NY
TRADING HOURS 8120-2430 ET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
    
     
    
 
 

 

 

 

 

Rough Work Sheet: Open
arrows show quarter moon
with a true moon node change
at the same time.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
  

 

 

    
 
  
  
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iy F = Full Moon
f N = New Moon
A= Quarter Moon

70 i = True Node (R or D) : ]
A nee 5! : | |
: ‘Charts courte Sm |
BL conmoaiyerpectve a B Aa

eae

Sigaeee a 8 ea

jee __sen__—_oy ee
Higa e igo a 3 wires 7 a Sie
‘AUG ser act

P42 we

SO 1421 28 ah
wv

was a
DEC AN.


56 en
conmoaty brepestve TBONDS

SEPTEMBER 1983
ceemcorry PensrecH EveeneD, Wc Hots eOE0E CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE
- -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Arrows indicate a major
aspect of Mars in the Daily
Aspectarian:

_ Open window with sign
indicates Zodiac change for
Mars.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

{) peeopTepeperat Pre epee oe eer ero
Cote eT INES TE USEIVOIS207 FIOUTTS TUTTE? TERRE ITER FTSSIOe ILO AIT IES FBT
Sep Oct «MOY, OEC JAN FEB MAR) APR MAY. «YUN JUL AU

 


 

87

 

History of Astro-economics

Luther J. Jensen

Luther J. Jensen wrote Astro Cycles and Speculative Markets in
He was able to accomplish something that very few
astrologers have been able to do. He was widely quoted in
financial circles and in the press. His book is still the starting
point for almost eve: interested in learning Financial
Astrology. It takes the reader from natural laws of vibration
through sun spots, and planetary cycles.

 

Jensen spent considerable time with the Zodiac and mentions
the various houses and signs. The book is easy to understand but
not in the first reading because the subject matter is foreign to
most students. If Luther Jensen had access to our present day
computer systems, he would have been able to accomplish a
considerable quantity of research on astrology. Jensen's handling
of the Signs, Rulerships and Houses was presented like the expert

he had become. The book is a in any lib financial
astrology.

Lt.Cmdr. David Williams
Financial Astrology by Lt.Cmdr. David Williams is the best
book on the subject in over 50 years. Cmdr. Williams compiled

significant economic cycles and how they related to business

cycles. He explains how the ancients were aware of the Zodiac
and their signs as early as 6000 B.C. His concise historical

journey through ages of transformation in astrology is very

 


interesting. Sun spots are explained in several areas of the text.
One realizes the power of our solar activity as it relates to
weather, tele-communications, health problems, climatology, and
agriculture. The book is packed with scientific proof of the effect
on business and other economic activity by the Sun and planets.
Cmdr. Williams, was a tireless researcher and because of his

knowledge in this subject was able to research several of the most
important business cycle theories based on planetary phenomena.
I will list a few of the ones that, in my opinion, were most

important to understanding financial astrology.

Notable Works from "Financial Astrology"

1, Benner's Prophesies of Future Ups and Downs in
Prices by Samuel Benner. Sam Benner studied cycles in
pigiron, corn, hogs, and in general business conditions.
He compared Jupiter's Major Equinox of 11.86 years with
his 11 year cycle and found them to be similar.

2. The Origin of the Eight Year Generating Cycle, a
paper published by H.L. Moore of Columbia University
dealt with the Venus, Earth and Sun in inferior
conjunction. This was also correlated to Sun spots.

3. Louise McWhirters, McWhiter Theory of Stock market
Forecasting (1938) is based on the 19 year cycle of
the Moon's north Node as it passes through the
Zodiac. If her research proves to be correct, our

current economy has peaked and we are already in a

severe recessionary period.

 


 

59

4, The Jupiter cycles with Saturn and Uranus are.

extensively over long periods of time. This section

at these planetary aspects from a trader's viewpoint.

Some of the examples that appeared to be incorrect were in
actuality wonderful trading opportunities from a technical
standpoint. The stock market was doing the opposite of
what was to be expected but that fact was telling me to
expect the opposite to occur. Cmdr. Williams compared
these aspects to times associated with financial panics.

5. Edward Dewey and Edward Daiken collaborated on Cycles
The Science of Prediction in 1947. This book is \
paraphrased by Williams into the 9.2 year market cycle
and the 38 to 41 month market cycle. All did was

 

correlate the planetary cycles within this time frame and
discover the certain time periods of each of these

cycles. Dewey, Daiken and Cmdr. Williams have done
more towards legitimizing astro-economics than anyone in
recent times.

6. The Mars-Jupiter aspects of conjunctions and opposition
were discussed as they related to times of fear and panic.
Again Williams was warning this “aspect due in the fall
of 1987, where prices would fall precipitously. Five years
before it happened!

There is so much important material covered in "Financial

Astrology" that it is an injustice to highlight minute parts. It is the

true treasure chest of astrology. i

 


James Mars Langham

James Mars Langham wrote several books on the subject of
planetary causes of price trends. They have long since been out of
print. He was another tireless researcher and concentrated on the

aspects of several combinations of planets (i.e. Mars opposition

‘Uranus, Venus opposition Uranus, and many others). It is an
Pasionaria

excellent book of reference to the early 1900's price behavior. All
of Langham's assumptions were tested using the Blue Star
software program inorder to determine the highest probablty
trades. They work the same way now as they did in the 1930's.

W.D. Gann

‘W.D. Gann has received more fame in the fast ten years than
he did when he was alive. In all my years of study no one has as
much mystery surrounding him. He left few clues to his approach
to astrology. The Tunnel Through the Air is reported to be an
autobiographical sketch of Gann's early years. This book
mentions the Bible and natural jaws of harmony, cause and effect.
He made reference to the solar and lunar cycles of various years
and their relationship to prices. If a non-astrologer were to read
the book it would most probably mean very little as a timing tool.
Ona few of his old charts were comments such as "the faster
moving planets are the key," and "the retrograde motion of
Mercury will affect the trend in grain prices.” Both of these
comments prove that Gann was an astute financial astrologer. Tris
mind-boggling to think what he might have accomplished with the

 


61

use of modern day computers. Many students of Gann have
twisted and massaged many of his ideas, but the quality of his
basic geometric approach to price and time cannot be denied. The
bottom line is this--W.D. Gann left very few clues to his
“astrological” approach to the markets,

Gann published Zhe Magic Word ij just four years
before his death. This work, in my opinion, was the culmination

of Gann’s study in Pythagorian mathematics, the Bible, the
Kabala, and Freemasonry. It was his most important work!

George Bayer
The original research of the Mercury-Jupiter aspects and

Mercury-Saturn aspects was done by George Bayer. (This is
covered in greater detail in the "Wheat" division of this book.) He
also published under several pseudonyms. Should you ever come
across one of his books, it would be wise to buy it--they are worth
hundreds of dollars to collectors. George Bayer studied the Wheat
market from the 1400's until his death in 1949.

He lived in Monterey, California, and would go east when the
time to trade Wheat was near. Evidently, he was a member of the
exchange and liked to visit his comrades.

Norman Winski

Norm Winski is a member of the Chicago Board Options
Exchange (C.B.O.E.). As I understand, he only trades stocks and
bonds using financial astrology. Reports of his successful trading
have appeared in the press because of his unique approach. He
has made astrology appear to be the useful tool it is. Winski is

 

 


 

well respected by his collegues. Although I have never personally
met the man, our phone conversations have always been pleasant
and informative. He has the most extensive financial astrological
library that is in existence. He purchased the Evangeline Adams
collection. Evangline Adams was the personal astrologer of J.
Pierpont Morgan. When asked by reporters about financial
astrology, J.P. Morgan replied "Millionaires don't use astrology,
but billionaires do!" Norman Winski can be reached at CBOE
#802 400 So. LaSalle, Chicago, IL 60605.

Jack Gillien

Jack Gillien wrote Key to Speculation on the New York Stock
Exchange. He is a syndicated columnist and has received more
recent publicity than anyone in financial astrology. He is
extremely busy and quite successful. He operates a telephone
update for the stock market. He can be reached at P.O. Box
555179 Orlando, FL 32855.

Bill Foster

Bill Foster is the editor of the Rocky Mountain Forecaster.
‘This newsletter is specifically geared to the commodity markets. I
personally know that he is well versed and extremely competent in
all areas of financial astrology. He has several research papers

that are available and a teaching course that is quite compre-
hensive. He can be reached at Box 1093 Reseda, CA 91335.

 


 

Larry Berg

Larry Berg is an astute financial astrologer who operates an
advisory service called Astro Stock Market Advisory. He may be
reached at 5816 Webster St. Omaha, NE 68132.

Raymond A. Merriman

Ray operates MMA Cycles. His service consists of a
newsletter and hotline service. Ray is an adept technician,
knowledgeable financial astrologer and notable author. He may be
reached at P.O. Box 1074 Birmingham, MI 48012.

Carol Mull

Carol Mull is a financial astrologer and publishes The Wall
Street Astrologer She is well known in the astrological
community and lectures extensively. She can be reached at Mull
Publications P.O. Box 11133 Indianapolis, IN 46201.

Arch Crawford

Arch Crawford publishes Crawford Perspectives. He is one of
the most highly publicized financial astrologers on Wall Street.
He is seen on the Financial News Network each week. Arch can

be contacted via Crawford Perspectives 205 E. 78th St. NY, NY
10021.

Mason Sexton
Mason Sexton publishes "Harmonic Research” one of the best
available technical outlook publications for the stock market. His

 


64

combination of financial astrology and expert technical analysis

leaves the reader with little doubt on the correct course of action.
Mason can be reached at Harmonic Research 650 Fifth Ave. New
York, NY 10019.

 


Fibonacci and Planetary Cycles

Many of the planetary (synodic) cycles conform to the
Fibonacci Summation Series. A brief discussion of the Fibonacci
number sequence follows, however those of you wanting to
expand your knowledge in the subject to improve your trading
should contact Ed Dobson at Traders Press P.O. Box 10344
Greenville $.C, 29603. He provides an excellent reference source
of the use of Fibonacci numbers and their application to price
action,

Leonardo Fibonacci de Pisa was a 12th century Italian
mathematician. He spent several years in Egypt studying the
pyramids, to arrive at his Fibonacci number sequence. The

sequence of Fibonacci numbers is as follows:

 

 

0,1,1,2,3,5,8,13,21,34,55,89,144 —. infinity
(+1=1)...+1=2)...1+2=3)...2+3=5)...¢te

 

 

 

5=8 = 625 2.618 - 1.618= 1
8+13= 615 1.618 -.618 = 1
13421 = .619 1-618 = 382

21 +34 = 618 2,618 x 382'= 1
34+55 = .617 2.618 x .618= 1.618
55 +89 = .617 1.618 x .618 = I

89+ 144 = 618 -618 x .618 = .382
144 + 233 = .618 1.618 x 1.618 = 2.618

 

Robert Prechter's newsletter, The Elliott Wave Theorist has
popularized the use of these Fibonacci ratios in market analysis,

 

 

 


66

Mr. Prechter's book the Elliott Wave Principle will give the
interested student a good start in studying the mathematics of the
market place. It is an absolute must in any market technicians
library. (New Classics Library Box 1618 Gainsville, GA.
30305).

“Applications Manual" on the use of Fibonacci numbers in trading
using a proportional divider. (8851 Albatross Dr. Huntington
Beach, CA 92646).

‘The trading signals that are discussed in a later section of this
book are based on the Fibonacci number sequence. After
researching hundreds of price patterns over a twenty year period
these two were the most consistent.

‘The importance of Fibonacci numbers cannot be over-
emphasized! It's relationship to natural harmonic vibration is not
by chance. It was the Venus-Uranus synodic period of 225 days
of astrology. As you look at each of the planetary combinations
discussed in this book you will see this Fibonacci relationship
reappear time and time again.

‘Those of you who are interested in learning more about pattern

recognition techniques should consider John R. Hill’s classic Stock
and Commodity Market Trend Trading by Advanced Technical
Analysis. He can be reached at Commodity Research Institute
P.O. Box 1866 Hendersonville, N. Carolina 28739

 


SECTION TWO:

THE EPHEMERIS

 


Section Two:

The Ephemeris

The Ephemeris Explained

The Ephemeris is the book that gives the exact location of the
planets of our Solar System, The various astrological
ephemerides are compiled from the National Almanac issued by
the U.S. Government. It will be necessary for you to purchase an
ephemeris. There are several vendors that make this data
available. I strongly recommend that you purchase The American
Ephemeris 1981 to 1990 from A.C.S. Publications P.O. Box
16430 San Diego, California 92116-0430 ($6.00). This book is
constantly by my side and I usually wear one or more out each
year.

When you finish reading and studying this section of the book,
you will be able to go to an ephemeris and understand what you
are reading. My thanks to Neil Michelsen of A.C.S. for his
permission to use his ephemeris in our examples. I chose to go
through each important segment of the ephemeris on one page.
This keeps you from leafing through pages trying to find
something. The chart examples also have indications of where to
Jook in the ephemeris. You will become accustomed to using this

book daily. Major research projects that include years of data are

 


 
 

 

 
 

best accomplished by the use of "Blue Star," which is a

computerized ephemeris.

‘The ephemeris is separated into four parts:

V1, Longitude~Measurement along the ecliptic in
rom

terms of signs and degrees the first point

of the zodiac.
V 2. Declination and Latitude--The degree of distance

of any place north or south of the earth's
equator.

V3. Daily Aspectarian—-Indicates aspects (angles) of all
nets and the time it occurs in eae
{Greenwich Mean Time)

V 4. Lunar phenomena--Apogee, Perigee, Full and
New Moon, Maximum Declination

Let's take a close look at what this ephemeris is telling us.
The word cycle is derived from the Greek word for "circle." We
know that the book measures the distance between planets
"exactly." What we must determine is whether these planets have
an effect on prices of certain stocks and commodities. This task
will not be easy because you must learn the terminology--THEN
you examine the price and time of each market.
At times you will get frustrated and confused. Put the
ephemeris aside for awhile and return to it at a later date.
“Knowledge of astrology makes man aware of the time and
character of the operations of nature and so provides him the
OPPORTUNITY to think and plan, BEFORE it is time to ACT;
and to use discrimination in his reactions to planetary aspects, in
accordance with the extent of his awareness and ability to controt

and determine his actions.”

  

Llewellyn George


KEY TO THE EPHEMERIS

Planets Signs Sidereal Times given for midnight (0h)
Sun 7 Aries Universal Time at 0° longitude {Gre

Moon % Taurus wich). All planetary positions are given
Moon's node 2 Gemini for midnight (0h) Ephemeris Time
Mercury ® Cancer except D 12 Hour positions which are

Venus ® Leo given for 12h Ephemeris Time.
Mars 1 Virgo.

Jupiter 2 Libra
Saturn My Scorpio
Uranus Sagittarius Aspect and Moon _phenomer
Neptune YF Capricorn times are given in Ephemeris Tim
@ Pluto #8 Aquarius

% Pisces

eae qoanved

D Direct
R Retrograde

 

D> VOID OF COURSE
PHENOMENA | Last Aspect| _D ing
© new Moon
D first quarter | Last Moon

© full major enters
@ third quarter | aspect new
Sun eclipse before sign
# Moon eclipse | Moon
enters
Maximum new
and 0° sign
declination

 

 

 

Maximum
and 0° Apogee
latitude Perigee

 

 

 

Major Aspects Aspects in Declination
conjunction (0°) # parallel

sextile (60°) 4 contraparalle!

square { 90°)

tring (120°)

opposition (180°) SD Stationary going direct

SR Stationary going retrograde
Minor Aspects ry going retree:
sesquare (135°)
auineunx (150°)
semisextile (30°)
semisquare (45°) OM Sur enters Aquarius

 


 

 
  

     
 

 

 

 

 

 

           

  

   

 

Guuy 198s?
z

 

 

 

   

 

  

70

    

 

 

 

 

  

 

      

     

   
  

 

    

 

 

 

  

 

       
    

              

 

 

 

 

   

 

 
     

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

        

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

r c angaaee ly peeseaag agseseas crap saan gs siaaag anya
fo augadia dasness li desszese cfrsunnndeakeecertobyoraduetes
r ae if Reveee SERS GOIETNSSEAENDRRRAR SERRE
SREBRES SSSTTTS " ia aa sf =
oe ‘FaUF eae Teens saa ENeD he cAg TH
>| Byfeeresee See feces weoraleecheloeersdershesrdele
Hy eo Eig LERLGE EG LAREDO PELALASLE
A i if Bae Bg
eonnene a aaa
- a a a, eres
| $f 2 Aanaaank a
aganad ig) ~eresaae g a
, ghee meme | ag EE
5 PI li Bross gn | RYRESEY HEOMEREG GORA RAT
| fe Eesex ap SEA Grlenies Hees ee
wh § i Bonne et a aries Tree pad
9}. z Mid fees cesses 3% Oa.s B| acer Lnboernnnee: Hoos, bone
5 a a eacs Se ase | Ment HORACE BLEU aes
2 lvl gsrss seanese a i) *)saeegeyemgpe seer
oft Bl ld Elsce ceemeee tann | “iin Ge] eek] xl RES RUPE Gee ge
al. ARNRRDE NanRE: Sls Bzse eee mS | Hh Ble saga i
mann funanas gaaat| | [a Sess? S22 28 8) EEE WaT PRE
if tearass asoargs asae| [|g suirs Suk ase ga |? = ea Fl
Eeisaea aCeant toazes O} UE Essen fan Fppriae Paar PRE Ge
2efenhe Intngtn Fatatin® i < 5 oe ten tnendor. Dimmbs Nove
ceavras Peoanee aarnea ria So | Sew | Dates meee eee
zeteres ae 5 ele pn |e ae
age ae sq SSBE-e eae 2% y aaaaae pT aE
pies te ee eet] (AIN Bonen uneee ode af] RET ERE
sasee Restage «8s = fp Buss Raesnee Te 5 = a
BAISRRM LE2=""" Races SEAR i Sites Sscecen weofane soesnn- covad| | FREREE P USRERAT GRANT GUEEL
S Raunins ppagt-n ocneF “ cans SeeAasY nneseR ~ENGTMR vesRE re al
Ey. ceeas| — L[E Bsaas naancs> Ronnan aansene Sonat seaggereroy
| paces eR old iat? SSMRE=° AEmKME ESR=SER ROBE acsenebone 2 donk
ie | SESRRRS FR ARAM KHANNRH aaaaaSR RAREEES &: regHRERases SEPEESTRUTART GEaE
by seieed pee fg] were erergin nenenee gaanaRe GRABS HEGUUESIAS ELSE 5
2
as

 


 

Birt rett aegRegesse ae eee
SpE ESTEE EEE
aay aaa rea ae

ral dereeredon

See eed

 

MARCH 1984

le
hee
g

ERESERE:
i; recede rae

Aries.

l-neseee

e a chan
T
movin

 

> Sun
into

sana Wabaaas ss85a55 APR RAL aReT

 

SEs STEALER

ABSSRS: Py bs St
SHEn GECLEREEPEOTES GHENTAE GL
- ae a SSNEARR OAESA: ae

e deertd Prodeee Fonorken

 

he Zodiac.

 

t

le is the

Rasaaes $99553%
RANMA RARIAAT AAAANT
BAsARR RARKAOA RUARELE

aaaeaea Eeaatiy

 

 

TOM Pisces

w
Qa
2
gS
Zz
Ss
a

 

 

Pa reir ei EEE IE BE
See by fades EWE Hemme] [fasetkore these boowsasdes
RE9 Bat orange” aasrehe EQRRSURRERE KREERR RRBRACESRE

Bai peers ae a Be

abgrene pegeang *aneteR gese-ak Tye Qsgaay gaan see qauge:

RRRBESY RACOGRE Mare SeMseRE Senerey swies ok i ! i
3832989 SaBRRR aneewe Ea RRLeaRe RaRERAaASN BS:
arses gpeeane oF oe oe

SRRNES® “SEARS RANE TES ae? Eta Se

ROgeaRY G8g07ER BESETR asaeney take ce (ial ua
vaenere SERAMNR RRRRERS u ie Sau Es

DAILY ASPECTARIAN

of sign
exam

The arrows indicat
in
DECLINATION and LATITUDE

 

 

Brie Leleenese des

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

i iy aRRGESAE

 

 

 

ag” WUAEERERE

BEBE
hia

> aveanyaAsaen

 

TDM

Siok’

Bal dass

 

 

 

 

 

secnn santas

 

 

 

 

 

a solar eclipse.

 

BESREES
soosges
agesee=

atakEn Andseae FISeR:
Haesess Fegzess Be9z8T8
ARRRERK RARARAA RANAARS

Sar ease
Raalad,

The arrows indicate a lunar and

saarTisipni suse] ses aT pew + al

w
E
§
g

ie peers Pe

 

teiiad a ast Shae
EgHEES EERIE SRESSER BREEE

Risoscs cooccce obeasen aRth
SaATheR PE-GRHS S°SRTRA BERS eh

eas” BERERR= ATLERAS BEEF Saga Seas?
EaMonSy Sghahed oF See aaa asus
aErRRS URRORLA BERETS ERA oe, Hae? See

ig BehogBy Pentate afntate tnSE supers seveesn apa? Po va Panis

DAILY ASPECTARIAN

 

aeraata

DECLINATION and LATITUDE

 

 

aa9e BRBSREY RATESER 87 ta gras cones RaAnaHe a Lanes Aedeers do-andan
308 ye SEEDER AARGES 2A TREE felenne teeelee SF SELES FERZET GREEEESE &

SEDetha snzsina gB-unee enek Regeses ARS"SHS

4898 seoloeg RanSASh cor = RERSReE™ a
RaRERRe ARANERY TenRATE = za Ge Gaagene “RAQSREN aE Bae
ggercee amasaae a ng7Rees Haas eKS ree fio ee Beebuneneen it
ae ree RELIG SCSI DEEEEEAEEE

RanRaRe = ve =

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

APRIL 1986

 

 


73

LONGITUDE

MARCH 1984

 

D__ [De aor] For A

 

 

a

pearee

ig

aed

BEES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DECLINATION and LATITUDE

 

 

= ead glo

geste!

 

 

 

wal eo Foe tT # ow Tf

The arrows indicate a true
Moon Node change (A) and
Lunar phenomenon (B) near

the same time. This is a very
good indicator for a short term
change in trend for stocks.

 

 

q

 

RRENRET
Sxusaest

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

tsceosh wacla.

B

Barge Sases:
seeeset

eo setateraseese:

BobSe!
if

84.0

AHS

 

 

 

En Soler Sos¥soBSYRN,

anne

 

 

 


B4

MARCH 1984

LONGITUDE

 

 

addanng

 
 

 

 

daiagan Aaaeaag

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RT

xemkeceaesnnne

 

 

   

ET feaow

ie

  

STSERSSReG Ea eh]

SaSRERER Epes erERIEDIRES

ae ="

  

 

  

 

 

ete eae

a I doneonedon

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

 

   

 

  

  

  

  

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 
 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

         

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

j

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

tonenne Enanne (18 flonan TREC Ea?
i accord feng ;
79h SPF re
ey arene
{JS Aananaad | rEea aRaGaERaE Soe
3] ~*eesaze |: ERROR BEREEES REEDESRSRAEREEEES
RRR | = : fe
a Ie HBBR888 eeaaa5 StRoRRE Raa eETE aannea |
SaRERER 8 (2 sguoees songeea gheaees ii one eens
sea el i : vseal| Z| SEY GPUREEREnSE BESTT
< isise] = = - &
s a Hezese ‘es | peed z aE-E SeeustyRasTaze fe
2 a , sete Deneckuunerne Doheny
AN NNANANA ANMARAS | aoe ne
ae & jj Bee seacaaa asascen | S i] SERE EESUEREEESAGEY FISHES a
E e om < 3 2°
E ay ie Mak aga a waaaage D
SLE bes ceenwen emcees, 3) Ti Lie eee, See
5 ieon| Sy eeeerare | Fo =| aaah Gee HAST anes
3 ies, socccee seen, os a Hae SERENA GUAREER ZEEGESAE
i neesng: aspneas| anretan | a= er >
SE"HES "SERRE saRe' a seenszs | 3 He TEGN*aa GEGESE Go TST GET
Sl. Br Regtaty Contes Sate] [Wace tues eerzes |S S Nenornbeone iobear Inaerasbos
Ste ee Tone Sf Gaga" SEEEGRS >> SSiTtE EeTTaHT eer]
; 89 Aaaenes essrgne S-zneay “esas a ges Wrearay Seaaage | 5 = SSUES ERISSE RENSCRSRE
Jay RS* Bosk=sa ReRtesR sageaes eRace~s == og ~ ee
+ Se abpRon! o%eMahe Wgketer RePabuk all er chasse z x 7 EE Fe FE
. BRE°SRe Raters gengsas bagneen m siz NeoRuae Fentoenane se ntec.
lo} BRR RERRBTA SaBRRak a ae Eee &.8 SEK REARGRE EGRRRGREN S0232,
ana nagd-n0 “ly gee aapaas~ os ~ ~~ ™
és
5

 

 

 

 

BEZSNP© gageess sae: 2 ir peerage

SENRGRS SeERET* Oxenees oly g2 Breese~ Fungtne deefoor Honegtve
Eeielad bets Ond gman vaerers SERGREA SEESSEE EAESEENSE SEE
SERENRZ RERSESS 4s - “é 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


MARCH 1984

LONGITUDE

 

SRRARS RANARS |

 

 

 

a dudaese

 

 

 

  

 

eeETTATT tg

 

 

 

 

 

 

RaSET ES

RERERS SASEKEK

 

Be ea 4a

tanatee

sata gahaees
uaa seonees

     

 

 

ig
B28

ESE

tit]

ha i

 

 

 

 

 

 

~

         

  

 

 

 

SUUSESSEURLEEDDUUERaEEERE TRAE
ange BE BEBE
SEP

 

EEE NERAEES UVES

 

Pee.

a LETRA

anone

BH EB BEARS

 

 

 

SaeuHAS WARERAT SERRRES

 

 

  

aaanaR

 

 

agg ae)

  
    

RaRBsSsa

sreeRs

 

  

hen the
ximum

 

 

 

 REBRERE
enaees
Salada 2Pegtek

 

 

  

DECLINATION and LATITUDE

 

     

aragss®

Icate Ww!

North (or South) of

the Equator.

 

 

   

woregea

oBresan

 

 

      

sranecS

 

Moon is at Ma:

The arrows ind
ination

 

       
   

 

 

 

 

   

o
ME | 8
LI a3 Qa
SreeRs san

SrRatas,

 

 

 

SRQESED SARANRE i

 

DAILY ASPECTARIAN

Te

See

 

   
   

roa ne .

 

I
THELESS HEE g

 

 

 

 

 

wie Leowechoneeone ne i
TEE ETRE GLEE wl

ne

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

RE RTE meee

i BEE

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

ake Fe eee
EGGLSERELE FEI BS
i Fina ie PE aa pe

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

HEE EARERARASS HEaaEEE
¥
ar aaa apTE aaa

Ei SERZSEE ESS

 

 

 

Eaeisiet ©

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

      

                 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

76 MARCH 1984

     

 
      

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

       

 

 

 

 

 

  

   

 

 

 

   

 

    

 

 

 

 

     

              

 

 

 

      

 

  
 

 

 

LONGITUDE

       

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

  
     

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

   

 

 

 

    

 

 

    
  

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

   

 

     
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

fi Ersuzssl LECCE] Um PSS a
ST Siig Ce Tae decreed gvavowsy|"GRGH | | REFRIAIARAGRARLREEDAEEESEERS®
S SEReSSs SEEEERR SRUNRRE AAR 5 Se
Se ns Ee 5 ie
cononae SPRETEETUTRETLGE
29 SRSSARS se a
zeit ea Se Tt scccldweatee
Pueease aRSsNA aaprpgaceecassienpaueedeeae eee
tetoree eeesere Scones SEES RSBSERBSERAEREGRSPIREER EES
SESE = = = HE
daatace tectaas | fe ee eee =o cheers Unseverbocgs Uners #
tennant srogene Be gbrwweg Unoeneebengs Hennes #
Segdeg savatee é sessese sex: [SES Zz SepRENELERE
EeeRana & Baneaee BES i
% 3 seeeece, a aS <] R8-S aeeargenacnes assa"ea f°
> 3 saussna a = en bI Dcvcsbinwoone Deodeen be
é Zz aaReaRa 3 8.8 | SRE EROREREEEANEAS £28323 32
& saa a gl: ee
eRE = = gvusd® Sangha? Cananaae
ie Spee] [UE bes senses 32 s >To ee ee
i), ioe coucese sponses a [a WSs Sekcose fee. |S Bo | Yegnae Guana guazine BEERETEE
| sek weeeean asnsane BIg assegee S25 5 ee oF
p| 8° SaR"RER ° 22 gaa SeoorEaRTa GENE GOTHEERAR
als BFy RegPate i naa eaeeRe ge bo Losetboee defect Beomcesbes
g80 asetaee eressea i gee Baaaz® aed EqEERURLaNy Reseed SEnaezy
Be ahstand atatahe Sateen Tg 28s « Ten
Se abpting’ eter a seronan = EREGHay SREES EE Tih
eee aM Eb shots ite [ES & a a ak
ol. BBs sesases snasaas saa aie seoonn$ aa S33 EELGEES RELERSEAGS OS
Gsm geeenes RARE oA ig sag8aa~ = “re id
Els ase BRRSTRS ~ renrs2a Wrap payee pore
le) #88 olf BTRERRT RENCTR SAOCR"R TORERTT aaghee Leodeo: tnnvecsna fooe
fr ese Senwees monaaen coobonn -annnot Hay EES EET
ed [| “nent? EO ESRRARS RARRRSS oe 2

  

 

 


MARCH 1984

LONGITUDE

 

      

                                

 

     

 

 

 

 

     

 

 

 

 

      

                

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

         

 

 

 

 

 

  

   

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

      

 

 

 

    

 

   

 

 

 

   

 

    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sine. DEE
 eennane EESERIRERESRERESSPESERERERES
aeaaes ‘© Ree Se
I ree
Sanus SERRE Ete
Beoceood
» ganna
seteete ees ee BEAEEEE ISS SERESES IERIE
= Ed
| ee Ri SS TT) ERT
“| gag Reeser fe: EQeeers Beow—ge = ee =
ol" “os E g Bre cexeeee i] Zz SSpESSTEEE WASTE
' a8aas ‘| [5 dee a sree y*
| ase a)" |g BRE #eeaSEH Sescaes e ere
* 9 Haev Sis daa saasana sagnene g SaaS
el: SOSgs zl ly Bet sennnen 8 a sagLE
i. BESS | a] 8 See oad
ost Aes E eee REESE > aad gampnae a
el ae g oe6a 3g ee a mnezt Aengawe 4
Hi Sgbese a cisseen ceceest| 65] Bigtas SUREEE GREEEEE
i ue 3 — y B°SERR SR-R ee cE ca er 2
is SOA eet seer ee DecoeRRAMR GRUEET GUTSeeuHRE
Aa a yea 23 5 BRUSEHs RELAIS AOVSNST SENSE! Tinenntenna defooe Inner. BE
[| Bon85% Lae SSRREDEELY ERIERL DRRIRGRERE
al: Ros EE a ee
EE ,? oo a BOgey rar cBee Sassen’ Wye esgaes geeusvSae paagtes
; agdee alt Boe caeaten suas” ys a i
le}: Besos [5 S82 EEELice ceactoe snncci= ancenet| | EB RAGERE EELERIEEIN UEEEEE
+ Bao B jj BRE sapeese auraez oe oF *
E]- & Bre voters snaneze aE SP =
nt olg a2 RrRESer ease ea nabs be
Bee erg EG = 3 eee REE SE ta
a] Bak SeocEod Sots ied breed Secgede g| me renee aangesh SERGARS RARRARS ae

 

 

 

 


 

eeeanitg ie EET pp Pree 20° 3h

ezzfanone

 

 

i jl niall SEceEpeSuasEazeraR
ae rhe er
joccecel Sasi Mdina Ie Gaia

 

 

 

78 MARCH 1984

 

 

 

pacer
Aas

 

Erp, RESID CELUI EEETCSE
RRRETEE TeaRer RaaaReE ERE Fa i i Rae

gaaennn nennea’ ggg: honoree Enveneskece: Siemens
sg naneees

 

 

'35| tw 363] 130 2a]

 

SRERSER ROVRARSRSERE RASRERE

 

 

 

 

m to

 

 

5
g
Zz
o
a

he apogee

the mooi

 

he farthest

rigee the closest

ape pan aa
Ph Ded heb.

#2 gueehe

 

DAILY ASPECTARIAN

"25h SESERER SRLNAER RIBAS
SaBMRRS ° PR: ‘&: SENIORS

DECLINATION and LATITUDE

 

Loscokenne Irdose Leoenasbos
EEREEEAIE

a

Hei Slee irene

dicates t
gee of.
ec is t

eri
ad

point.

in
0
Pe

‘Sh839 “2bSSaR
sense eRgee-s
atatete Agketen Betekuk

gs
agers 5:

 

Pi

SSS BAN ge:

 

gagd-ne

Sena": Seances fanaa Beebe Belo, loneshee

 

The arrow
and
earth,
point an

 

 

—— Raha REESSAR 358
RARERBS 5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HEnE Ge Tati ©
e

 

 

 

 

Sencenesy


 

    

 

 

eee

 

 

yeesnea’

  

 

JULY 1986

 

 

EHEse

eEUEEENT

 

Rgaesaee one: ap Seen STS

ERERSEREES: SLE BEER

 

 

at

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

    

 

 

 

peek | Tar fore) LaF ome

 

 

Esenesall

 

 

wor Su2Etaaas
Help
pres [Secesg

ERNSUERRERZG ERE GEARE 5 EE TELL

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

       

 

  

 

 

 

 

    

¥

 

  

 

       
     

LONGITUDE

 

 

 

Pann ao

   

       
   

RRRRERE

 

      
    

 

DECLINATION and LATITUDE

 

lA

          

 

  

 

     

¥

BE

Dia]

  

=" ERR

  

 

  

 

 

wer

79

 

BgTR
waaREE™

 

SSRELEE FIEeEEr

 

Gand cE

 

 

 

= Re a

 

        

 
 

 

7

 

 

  

 

vy high
this
DAILY ASPECTARIAN

‘Baa Fa ae

Tne

ects on

Pp

    

 

eR

   

 

SLEREE 3335

 

dicates a ve)

particular date.

    

 

geszee

 

 

ReSene i pe i

number of as;

The arrow it

 

EGEEE ¢ ET ET Fn

 

 
 

 

 

Bee

 

adsaage

 

 

 

 

 

my

 

 

   

1 iL

 

SoeRarr eee sea pesas a8 Tl

Bererer

 

   

TREEREASS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

  

 

      
 

 
   

  

 

   

 

 

  

 

 

      

                     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

  
    

 

    

                     

 

 

 

   
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aa Sr eieen sage iis Fi = REGRASNSSEA TATRA
8 ul’ geese sananad uaa Bega8es 28885 5 eee 3 F i na dnetee
> (Eee aera ig Bowsmsea| |B. a aE SCELTTE TERROR
5 BS SESTSTE see5} Le 21 a a Be
3 2 5 i Ei ia paRRS ARSE ez Fe
22 A a ARTO SRE SEALS BERELUEEE
o BEES Resdisl geeesae seisene cece’ IS Bccceece f a Re a
B [| Ben Menases nantann annenen waved] je ips Ke 2 Faeyr a eaeeaTAR
> a3dsa sucadet Lendeve Gaetan Seaae Beaenant| ‘= spieuereversaeare
jal’ Peers cesses" sakes: tedesss cee: ESeRNSureeyverpapeaye
+ finnas saeneal_gueenin anaanaa_gadadt | ~rennans Sette 3 7
Yh dante aawtte setae ee | LEE EE Pili delees Ghee ed
of, feeds ateeeae iese“S: aaneaa? “iael] 2 z EEE IR BE
o E8kad aaa aeevens sores ree, =z = a
w daqon edaneon Ooeoona ameoHee a ¢< [Shen esegeecvences Sva'ns g°ag
Bp. acest feet cevveee SSE) KB) acer Lerdevvonnces Breve, Lowe
Js Hecon neaSeoe comernn anneBeg arae’ wrereee eeeeeee > eee terres eee ere
5 ae 5 SERuBaE BOUEOS! u B) EEGk SERSAEEAEERSE GREUEE 1955
Zz é Rannenn ennnnne oO g er = Be
3 E RRAREER Heese: Se Wasa? Geangans CR’ ogeen esau
- ioe ne & RRRRERS RRRRESE g3 3 Bae meobone deozatune ir
woes cater] 2 FRBBESR A : mT eee BSE:
anes asi] pee ee | Bg | SeSECe RERSERGS BEES BEES
g Eep-seg ERRSS°R ~ a 3 A =
SEZREE Busegee * S HSSRSS FASRGGRA HEtRoaS Bate
~ 3 BRERBRaR B23 Die Eee Ree fine
metas | 8 EAEERE BRERERRE REBSEER ESTE
3 ge gpatin oe =e ee
2 REEGHE Q QPECERES G°GER™ BESe:
(|$53| BRT Care
3 8 ESEERZ § ESZERZ2E CEASE SEREE
ln 35 ve FE
Ag
3a
je a
° 2 ghee
meetieee] Ets EG
SaRRRRS RAREST La <

 

 

 

 


JULY 1986

81

     
                 

     

 

 

 

  

   
 

                   

 

 

       

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

                   

         

  

 

 

 

 

LONGITUDE

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

       

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

Sree " Ressacnasheg ORT ERAMARBT TRAN
RaReS 3 aEeeer ded scces obese neice
Sn Fepeees Te a eEeves SECUCEEESEEED EGO PSEST
" Seoneca anneone wana ie ReezoRssa=8 Ea se
5 eu EERSTE aa
if Fl ommcureeatngs paler see sae
Saaaaee = EESGERRERR 23 ZEEE EERE:
el: Rannaaa ee Boonoee8, RE Fara fou
sesame BeREE eevee
a IE Senanaat sehewee | oekee ehnzbroneread
: SHSREEN RERSNIE ESSSEER EARRLSUAEE CSREES ELSA
cy Senenes Suaeees se de
: . ee Eoedones Hekece flor |
a © 3 EVSEHEE EERLSTS: GEESE BES
. Bx, 3 z EGER EEE age aE
rT Raaeges os Bee 3
| s7egess o 38 Pe S Ri | 3
. mote mat! | 2293S 5 sererss | reoe dente noe
i tee a] | SB ae Sy Yeanwaa sonmg| | REAR SRRIEE gEEE 238%
iJ nssamaz Saxt| | Sa Ono Ss Beg| “hare =
ef BSha be > [REE
i: 3 EM S 2 seoet| Gi) ESEESE MESSRNGH SERATED
2 Soe os epernes anved ee
a 2S 6M 26 | sara em) |S ETEN hn be.
Le. ceceeee eee 5 =
PoTsE s TRGEIE EBERLE NEESER ER
al = |B 28 36S sees SR 3
- oo On an ‘BESSES i pass = cr eee
F care aa} |. 22 20 ES serene | denceece dveat fod
o| eosaeee esze8| | Ea c USRREE R CERES OE
z e Raaaang KnRSe-n evee® = + oe +e
El: tesresg ae aRRaE . Renee h 2885
Bt RRBSEE? paaas Il madd SS5835 nceorntons dnegh--n-eree beck
= Bee RE RE PEGPENTSES SEESERESEGE? TREE
2 SHNRERS ARES E ~ * “ ra

 

 

 


 

  

 

  
       

 

ii: ites 5 booed nooo

  

  

 

 

a ddanks:

fe
5
sanonad i
5
a

 

Aanaadad

   

 

 

 

82 MARCH 1984

 

 

Haan HEHE REPEEPRTETE
Shankak Booceoe’ a
senneat 3 Boceoesd Sehageeaeea Raney Saag eee
| aang oy

                 

 

 

 

 

Bananant

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

           

 

 

      

 

 

 

 

 

           

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

; SECRETE
ze - z
wm =F; FEaresees, =
aE) a2 ee oe ee i
FLE|BESER Zz S SSPRINSLGSTE LENTERE
gaant-° Elk; | 2.6388 z #
w ene wrengTa Si | S325 8 & -
g 588083 aly Om tee 5
E asanene § y $ = § Sg a
g Zlde | Ses 5
3S Shy) as sg tle
“ = gi |SSs23 8 | T
a SUE ‘c 1 a
32 a. | macs 5 2 ali
RR REGRESS Sek | eeBese B z
me PRSSRe a Oe ee
He Banfl: fe e |S 4 § ° 1
eile HE sms a8
a nae i |’y gs £&
a “ Berner an®
: ae |e Zag male
3 . SEES
% 3 BASE ESLAEGTARN
i 7 BSR OF
a sot sence FRg* anon tans
ole BCS SEE, SRS eee eee
Getetcd] [pg] caw voowers re

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RARRRSS 2

 

 


83

STANDARD DEVIATION OF DAILY ASPECTS

One of the primary reasons for the writing of this book was to alert
traders of specific astrological and astronomical events. What I am going to
discuss next is a situation that occurs infrequently in the daily search for
clues to price-trend changes. This situation occurs when only 1 or 2
planetary aspects exist on a particular day; or just the opposite occurs~a
large number of aspects are present.

 

 

The average number of. aspects is approximately eight.

Whenever you see a very small number of aspects (3 or less) or a large
number of aspects (14 or more,) you can assume that something very
dramatic is about to happen in the stock market. Why this affects the
market I am not sure, but my opinion is that it works like a magnet. If there
are very few aspects on one day, then the larger astro-cycle will take hold

and pull the market either up or down.

 


S & P SOO INDEX
DECEMBER 1987

INDEX AND OPTION MARKET
TRADING HOURS 8130 - 3115 CT
T + r

The arrow indicates a very high
number of aspects on this
particular date.

4:9. DAY. RELATIVE, STRENGT|

2910 23°29 16°83 30 6 ES 20a A eas Pes aE ee
FEB HAR APR har aN

 


SEPTEMBER 1987

INDEX AND OPTION MARKET
TRADING HOURS 8130 - 3415 CT

HEC Geewes |] S & P 500 INDEX

The arrow indicates a very low
number of aspects on this
particular day.

 

([WOLURE/OPEN: [ENT ERES:

a 7
“aunt ue AUS *

Big 23 2 6 1823 80.8 1S Ba eeu
-28 HAR 1

 


SECTION THREE:

PLANETARY ASPECTS
4 AND SYNODIC PERIODS

 


Section Three:

Planetary Aspects and
Synodic Periods

 

=

(Venus-Uranus _)

‘Venus revolves around the Sun in 61.8% of 1 year (365 days).

Uranus revolves around the Sun in 84 years.

 

These two planets possess the unique Fibonacci relationship of
618! Figure I shows the relationship of Venus and Uranus when
they are on opposite sides of the earth or in opposition (180°
apart). This is how it would appear from the Earth looking up into
the sky. It takes 225 days for Venus and Uranus to make a
complete cycle from conjunction (0°) to conjunction (0°). If we
take 365 days and multiply it by .618 the answer is 225 days.
‘When I first witnessed this relationship it was apparent that the

 

 

cyclical implications would be revealing because of the Fibonacci
number sequence.

Donald Bradley in Stock Market Prediction by LLewellyn
Publications mentioned this effect on stock prices when Venus and

Uranus were at certain critical degrees (aspect). After studying

this phenomenon for many months, certain applications became

apparent from the trader's viewpoint:

 


87

The aspects were so accurate as a short-term trading
and timing device that they could be used in trading
stock index futures (636 aspects were tested, accurate
to 92% +/- two days). vy

2. The sample size was excellent! Over 600 aspects in a
90-year period (1898-1987).

OK” Some aspects were associated with bullish price
action, and others with bearish price action.
Conjunctions (0°), sextiles (60°) and trines (120°) are
associated with strength in the stock market. Squares
(90°) and oppositions (180°) are associated
with weakness.

4. It was usually a short term (3 to 10 day) trend change,

but more than 50% of the time the effect lasted
several WEEKS.

The amount of research to verify this idea was frightening, but
once I had seen the stock market reverse direction on these days, 4
the question had to be answered. I have studied the technical
implications of cycles in stocks and commodities for over twenty
years, and I must admit that it is the single most accurate short-
term timing mechanism I have researched. Figure II shows the
last six months of the Standard & Poor's 500 futures index.
Notice how the market abruptly changes trend on these days.

How a trader may enter the market armed with this knowledge is a

subject that deserves special attention. Trend changes occurred on
October 5th, 1987, at Venus Trine Uranus (120°); November
24th, 1987, at Venus Conjunction Uranus (0°); January 14th,
1988, at Venus Sextile Uranus (60°); February 9th, 1988, at
Venus Square Uranus (90°); and March 7th, 1988, at Venus Trine

 


Uranus (120°) Students of W.D. Gann have learned to respect
these angular relationships.

Figure III shows that certain aspects have a positive effect and
others have a negative effect.

For your convenience, I have listed the next six Venus-Uranus
aspects in 1988. The serious market student owes it to himself to
mark these days on his calendar:

May 19th Venus Opposition Uranus (180°)
May 27th Venus Opposition Uranus (180°)
Aug 3rd_ Venus Opposition Uranus (180°)
Oct 2nd Venus Trine Uranus (120°)
Oct 28th Venus Square Uranus (90°)
Nov 23rd Venus Sextile Uranus (60°)

‘The first three aspects are the same because of the retrograde
motion of Venus or Uranus. My experience tells me that they will
probably be more powerful than usual because of this retrograde
motion. Watch for changes in short-term trend on these dates!

The S&P 500 chart on Figure II indicates the last two solar
eclipses. Although eclipses bear no Telationship to the Venus-
Uranus aspects, eclipses are so astrologically significant that they
were included in the chart. .

Several other researchers have mentioned this Venus-Uranus /
correlation, such as James Mars Langham, Cyclical Market

Forecasting Stocks and Grain and T.G, Butaney in Forecasting
a Butaney in Forecasting

Prices.

 


89

THE MAJOR ASPECTS

 

Figure I: This graph shows the relationship of Venus opposition
Uranus.*Planet Earth would be in the center. (Geocentric) PPes

 


JUNE 1988
INDEX ANG. OPT
TRADING HOURS &

S & P 500 INDEX ee es

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retrograde motion of Venus
will cause two oppositions (180°) of
Venus-Uranus at the end of May 1988

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

berger sbi
wag george anno cee

F 28 $12 1926-2 9 1823.90 7 84 Pre A TIE
oct nov DEC AM R

1 W160)

i Charts courtesy of
250 Commodity Perspective :

 

VOLUME /OPEN

 


 

91

THE OBSERVED EFFECTS OF VENUS-URANUS
ASPECTS (1898 - 1987)

Soho Echese

Tne

  
  

     

120-6 o te Ha 130-6 Oo +8 412
DAYS BEFORE DAYS AFTER

~l2 -6 o +6 412 130 6 0 +6 412

 

 

 

Spare

re III: Actual observed deviations due to the action of
Venus-Uranus aspects, Broken line indicates course of. Dow-Jones
Industrials during 31-day periods of when aspects,
wel ict. Expressed as a percentage relatives of revious to
pect, ken as base, and corrected for trend by method of least
squares.

jis experiment confirms astrological theory which claims

that certain aspects are bullish, others bearis
