 

TRADERS PRESS”
POST OFFICE BOX 6206 GREENVILLE, SC 29606

 


 

 

CYCLIC ANALYSIS:

The Dynamic New Approach
To Technical Analysis
Of Stocks and Commodities

Traders Press, Inc.®
PO Box 6206
Greenville, SC 20606

 

 

 


© Copyright J.M. Hurst 1974

All rights reserved. No part of this work maybe reproduced or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and recording, or
by any information storage or retrieval system without the prior written permission of
the copyright owner unless such copying is expressly permitted by federal copyright
law.

Published by Traders Press, Inc.

The material contained herein is not to be taken as advice to buy or to sell specific
securities. The information presented is based on sources we believe to be reliable and
has been carefully checked for completeness and accuracy but cannot be guaranteed.

Se’
1975-2000
25th Anniversary

Traders Press Inc.
PO Box 6206
Greenville, SC 29606

 
   

800-927-8222
864-298-0222
FAX 864-298-0221
Tradersprs@aol.com
http://www. TradersPress.com


 

ullishers Comments

 

For many years I had heard that the work of J.M. Hurst was of great value to tech-
nical analysts, especially those interested in the cyclical analysis of stock price move-
‘ments. Upon looking inio what composed the body of his work, I learned that most of it
‘was unavailable to traders and investors. Hurst's primary work, The Profit Magic of Stock
Transaction Timing bad gone out of print. I had heard rumors that Hurst had also authored
a lengthy trading course on cycles, but, too, was long out of pen. Having been involved
in technical analysis and trading for many years myself, I felt that it would be a valuable
contribution to the field of technical analysis to assure that the work of Hurst was “kept
alive” for present and future generations of traders and analysts. I decided to make a spe-
cial project of “resuscitating” his research in its various forms.

‘My first step was to negotiate with Prentice Hall for the rights to reprint Profit
‘Magic as a Traders Press publication. This done, I next set about to locate a copy of the
Hurst course. | knew that Hurst himself would be the best source of information on it.
However, due to the various rumors I had heard about Hurst, I assumed that he was no
longer living. No one had seen or heard from him in many years and it was commonly
rumored that he had died. I conducted a search to find not oaly the Hurst course, but also to
determine whether Hurst was still living and if so, how to contact him. Months of diligent
searching finally turned up a copy of the course. Jim Tillman, a cycles analyst of consider-
able repute, owned a copy of the course and was kind enough to let me use it in order to

juce the course. A further search for the owner of the rights to the course proved
successful, and | purchased them from him. A final search resulted in finding Hurst alive
‘and well, to my surprise and delight. Ihave since had a very pleasant association and friend-
ship with him. He has asked me to eep his location and contact. information confidential,
and | intend to respect that wish.

"After reprinting Profit Magic and the Hurst Cycles Course, and sending copies to
Hurst, he advised me that in 1974 he had authored a book which gave an overview and
summary ofthe main poets ofthe couse, He very graciously offered me the rights to
reprint that material, and this resulted in the book you are now reading. This completed the
project I had in mind from the beginning, to make all of the Hurst research and work avail-
able again to the investment community.

‘The course itself is quite lengthy and will prove exceedingly valuable to those
willing to devote the necessary time and effort to studying and mastering the principles of
trading it teaches. A longtime Traders Press customer, who manages in excess of $100
million, advised me that the sole method he used in his timing and selection decisions was
the Hurst approach as taught in his course. Any reader of this book who is interested in the
full course (Which is available exclusively through Traders Press) is encouraged to contact
Traders Press for full descriptive information, The price paid for this book may be de-
ducted from the price of the course.

Tt is my hope that my efforts to preserve the work of Hurst will prove helpful to
investors who avail themselves of his genius by studying his work.

Sincerely,

Qrarh A Mohsen

Edward D. Dobson, President
‘Traders Press, Inc.
Greenville, SC

October 12, 1999


 

bout the Author

 

 

James M. Hurst was educated at Kansas State, Brown, and Washington
Universities, majoring in physics and mathematics. World War II and the advent of
radar stimulated interest and training in electronics and the theory of communica-
tions.

Following the war, Mr. Hurst specialized for 25 years in electronics systems design for
aerospace applications. An interesting project related to antisubmarine warfare pro-
vided experience with and appreciation of the power of large digital computers as
applied to the problem of extracting information from time-series data.

‘Numerical analysis methods were first applied by Mr. Hurst to negotiable equity data
in the search fora solution co the classical cost-effectiveness problem. This effort led to
the discovery of the spectral signature phenomenon in price data (cyclicality), and roa
Theory of Irrational Decision Proceses. The Wave Theory of Price Action described in this
paper is the firse practical application of The Decision Theory to be developed.

In 1969, Mr. Hurst founded Decision Models, Inc. for the purpose of further develop-
ing decision theory and wave concepts as applied to the equity markers. The CycliTec
aids to cyclic analysis of equities resulted and were initially published in 1971

‘Mr. Hurst has authored several treatises on the Wave Theory of Price Action. The first
was the book The Profit Magic of Seock Transaction Timing, published by Prentice-Hall
in 1970. The paper Cyeles for Profits in Stocks and Commodities was presented to the
Sociery for the Investigation of Recurring Events on 15 June 1971. The paper Predic-
tive Implications of Periodicity in Szock and Commodity Prices followed (presented to the
Technical Security Analysts of San Francisco, 18 October 1972). The last, and by far
most extensive treatment isin the form of the Cycli Tec Services Training Course, initially
published in 1973 by GycliTec Services, San Francisco.

This course has been reproduced and preserved by Traders Press, Inc., Greenville, SC
and has been renamed the JM Hurst Cycles Trading and Training Course. Iris exclu-
sively available through Traders Press.


yne sis

 

 

“The advent of accurate and continuous equity price histories made possible the study
of equity price movement as a function of time, independent of all other variables.

Barly studies of such data produced the conclusion that equity prices vary in a
random, hence unpredictable, way.

‘This conclusion has been replaced in the last decade as evidence mounts that equity
price variation is ordered and quasi-predictable.

“The relationship between past and future prices is found to be complex and nonlin-
car. Current simplified models represent price movement as consisting of a linear
combination of wave functions with specific and consistent interrelationships. This
viewpoint has led to the development of the Wave Theory of Price Action.

From this Wave Theory, a body of practical applications methods called Cyclic Analy-
sishas been evolved which permits a fully integrated and wholly technical approach to
the problem of trading and investing successfully in the stock and commodity mar-
kets

This approach features the following unique capabilities: prediction of price-reversal
timing, prediction of the price at an anticipated reversal, estimation of the extent of
the price move expected co follow a reversal, and evaluation of a transaction before
entry in terms of risk and profit potential.

Cyclic Analysis methodology has been field tested since 1971, and computerized
analysis aids are available,


reface

 

 

Until 1979 my career followed the established path of university scientists and teach-
ers the world over—writing papers, teaching students, presenting my work at con-
ferences and visiting other workers in my field of scientific research. Then I was
invited to spend a year as visiting scientist with the Food and Drug Administration
in Washington, D. C., bringing my family with me.

‘Since Thad an interest in the stock market, mainly from the scientific aspect of using
digital filters ro market data, I naturally paid a visit to the local library to see what
vas available on the subject of investment. I was astonished to find almost a whole
wall of books devored to this topic, at a time when there would have been probably
none, or at best a couple of books cn this subject back home in our local library in
England.

Imagine my delight and pleasure when after about three months I came across J. M-
Hurst's book The Profit Magic of Stock Transaction Timing (published by Prentice
Hall), Unknown to me, Hurst had been putting into practice for years methods of
analysis of market data that I had only recently begun to look at. Hurst was a
‘mathematical analyst with an engineering background and he employed techniques
familiar to me as a scientist where I frequently analyzed the noisy output of various
instruments. He also, in his book, satisfied the slight reservations I had asa scientist
about the predictability of the stock market by providinga great deal of evidence in
support of the author's theories about cycles and channels in stock price movement

If T had any criticism of the book at all, ic was simply that the average investor,
picking ic up and quickly scanning through its pages, would perhaps feel that it was
too mathematically orientated, and replace icon the shelf, because it contained terms
such as Fourier Analysis, modulated sidebands, etc. The investor would then be miss-
ing an important contribution to the subject of technical analysis. However, a reader
who took the trouble to study the book in depth would grasp that Hurst's work was
based on five main concepts. These were:

1 ‘Maximum profits are obtained from shorter trades
Some 23% of price motion is based on cyclic movements
in nature

3. These cycles are additive


 

4, ‘The cycles can be seen clearly if envelopes are constructed around
the price movement

5. ‘The ideal buying point is when several such cyclic components are
reaching their low points

‘Now, some 20 years later, Hurst's pioneering work is as valid as ever, and his concepts
form a solid foundation for profitable investment. To my regret, I never had the oppor-
tunity of meeting Hurst, but I can truly say that he was responsible for changing my
life, because once I returned to England I used his basic principles asa starting point for
my own line of research into price movements. This soon became my full time occupa-
tion.

Of course, I have the advantage over Hurst of state-of the-art computers and vast
amounts of price data from markets all around the world on stocks, commodities,
‘currencies and futures. However, these markets all have one thing in common—the
methods described in this book apply o all of them, as will be seen by the examples
used to illuserate the various chapters.

In this book I have employed the general principle of putting forward a concept and
then applying it to artificial data before using iton real market data. The reason for this
is quite simple—predictive techniques must be shown to work with totally predictable
data, ie, atificial data, so that the accuracy of the predictions can be checked. Itis only
then that these same techniques can be applied to less predictable market data.

‘A great deal of space has also been taken by a full discussion of moving averages and
their properties. Moving averages are not only simple to calculate, they are also ex-
tremely powerful tools, bur unforeunately the majority of investors have no idea of
how to harness this power. Ir is to be hoped thar the treatment given here will enable
readers to avoid the mistakes made by using them incorrectly.

Finally, although the majority of investors have access to computers and programs to
carry out various calculations and plor charts, computers are not absolutely essential for
channel analysis, and the investor with only a pencil, paper and calculator can stil
achieve a great improvement in performance.

—Brian J. Millard, Bramhall Cheshire England


 

nlroduction

 

 

“The corporation concept has been in existence since the thirteen hundreds—and
negotiable equities on the North American Continent date from the issuance of
Hudson Bay Company stock in about 1670.

Despite this long history, it wasn't until after the turn of the last cencury that serious
thought was given to why equity prices vary, and in what manner. At about that time
several important events took place:

1 1889. The Wall Street Journal came into existence, and with it, a
wealth of accurate and readily available information on price
movements as a function of time.

2. 1896. The Dow Jones Averages were created and published. This
provided graphic visibility to the form of price change versus time.

3. 1900, Louis Bachelier wrote his provocative and scholarly paper
“Theory of Speculation” that became the basis for the random-walk
theory of price variation. (1)

4. 1902, S.A. Nelson compiled Charles Dow's ideas in The ABC of
Seock Speculation. (2)

‘Thus, within this brief span of time, documented price data became available, the
random-walk theory was proposed, and one of the first technical approaches to stock
market trading and investment was born,


 

In the following years, market enthusiasts split into three distinct groups:

1. Fundamensalists, holding that price movements principally reflect
changes in the circumstances related to a company and its products
or activities

2. Aeademicians, unable to improve significantly on the Bachelier premise
that price Movements are random within reflecting bounds

3. Rechnicians, finding particular, frequently recurring, price patterns
in the past to be the harbingers of prices to come.

None of these three viewpoints really comes to grips with the problem of making
money consistently in the stock and commodity markers.

The random-walk theory discourages all hope of capitalizing on price fluctuations.

Fundamentalists must similarly ignore the immense profit potential of price oscilla-
tions, Furthermore, the occurrence of fundamental forcing functions is found to be
neacly as unpredictable as price change is held to be by the random-walk theory.

Classical technical analysis has demonstrated serious deficiencies. While the frequent
appearance of empirically defined price patterns is a definite fact, applications have
suffered from lack of a coherent theory on which to base methodology.

Furthermore, none of the existing approaches provides a basis for a self-contained,
logical, and complete solution to the money-management problems of issue selection,
transaction timing, and transaction yield optimization.

Forcunately, recent years have seen the bisth of a fourth viewpoint in which such
capabilities are inherent. This viewpoint is based on the Wave Theory of Price Action,
and the landmarks of development are indicated by the following events:

1. 1938. Ralph Nelson Elliott published his well-known monograph
“The Wave Principle.” (3)

 


 

2. 1940. In Pittsburgh, The Foundation for the Study of Cycles was

formed.

3. 1958. The Society for the Investigation of Recurring Events was
organized in New York.

4, 1960, The author initiated a study of the way in which human

decisions are made.

Equity price data was chosen for this study on the assumprion that price changes
reflect human decision processes. Unexpected results were obtained in the course of
computerized spectral analyses ofthis dara. Ir was found thae price movement can be
described as a complex combination of periodic functions with specific interrelation
ships. This work has continued to the present, resulting in a Theory of Inational Deci-
sion Processes.

5. 1971. An outgrowth of the Theory of Irra:ional Decision Processes
was the Wave Theory of Price Action. A book was published by the
author describing practical applications of Wave Theory to the
timing of stock market transactions. (4)

6. 1971. Computerized aids to Wave Theory analysis of stock and com
modity price histories became available for public use. (5)

7. 1973. "The first complete description of wave concepts as applied to
the capital

management problem was published. (6)

“The common element between these and other related events was the mounting evi-
dence Independently offered by hundreds of researchers that a remarkable degree of
periodicity characterizes time-series data describing a wide range of real-world situa-
tions - among these, the price movement of auction-market equities.

In the last decade several facts have emerged as outstanding:

1. There is very litle of the random in the price movement of nego
tiable equities.


 

2. Fundamental considerations do enter the picture, bur in a quite unex
pected way.

3. Theprice movement of negotiable equities consists almost entirely of
a complex combination of wave motions with many of the predictive
implications of simple wave functions.

4, The same wave functions and characteristics discovered in equity prices
are found to be operative in many other situations as well.

Thus, seventy years after the events that first made it possible to question whether or
nota governing law exists behind the apparently aimless meandering of equity prices,
some of the answers are beginning to emerge. And these answers have exciting implica-
tions.

The reason why fundamental studies fail to predict price oscillations is now known, as
‘well as the manner in which fundamentals actually do enter the picture.

The reasons behind the empirically developed axioms of classical charting methods are
now apparent, as well as the causes for frequent failure of these methods in application.

The reason for the erroneous conclusion on the part of Bachelier (and others) that
equity price movement is essentially random is now understood.

Even more important, the art that has been called technical analysis has now become far
lessan art and much more a science. Methods of making use of the predictive capability
implicic in the developing Wave Theory of Price Action are presently in existence and in
‘use—and prediction of future equity price movement, however imperfect, is the name-
of-the-game in trading and investing.

‘The remainder of this article will describe in brief the methods now being employed for
making use of the Wave Theory of Price Action.


 

elie Anaiyss

n Evolving Natural Law

 

Hunt

In the last ten years it has become increasingly evident that the wide-spread period-
icity observed in many kinds of data implies a common cause, or forcing function.
Such universal and common forcing functions are usually ascribed to a law of na-
ture. In this instance, the emerging natural law can be stated as follows:

Numerous real-world situations, including the price behavior of
negotiable equities, reflect a common, complex, periodic forcing
function. Change in the affected situations is desoribable as the
“sum of many simple wave functions. The particular waves compos-
ing she sum are a specific, describable subset in the infinity of pos-
sible such subsess, The relationships becween wave variables are
reasonably constant and are common to all of the situations in-
volved.

“The commonality feature implied in this law is remarkable and quite general. The
same wave functions and wave-variable relationships are found to be operating in
the price movement of all stocks, commodities, bonds warrants, rights, ete—whether
traded on the New York, Tokyo, London, or other exchanges, and without regard for
the time period considered.

Even more remarkable, all ora portion of the same specific wave subset is dominant
in the time variations of weather data, grasshopper abundance, tree ring formations,
lymx procreation, bacteria division rates, and the catch of fisheries, ro name only a
few of the reported examples,

This natural law, as applied to explain the price movement of negotiable equities, is
the Wave Theory of Price Action mentioned in the preceding section. Methodology
developed to apply his theory co trading and investment problems is called Cyelic
Analysis,

 


 

 

pele Analysis

Karst

‘WAVE FUNCTIONS AND
RELATIONSHIPS IN PRICE MOVEMENT

“The Wave Theory of Price Action is embodied in a set of eight Basic Principles of
Cyclicality as described in reference 6. The most significant relationships involved
have co do with waves, the elemental building blocks of periodic processes.

‘An ideal wave (shown in figure 1) varies smoothly and uniformly aboura value of zero,
alternately assuming positive and negative values. Onc complete repetition of a wave is

called a cycle.

Only three parameters are requised to completely characterize a wave (see figure 1):

1. Period, the lengch of time elapsed from trough ro trough
2. Amplitude, the size of the wave from trough to crest
3. Phase, the time position of the wave with respect to any given

reference time,

In figure 1 the phase parameter has been transformed to the more useful quantity phase
difference, which is a measure of the relative position in time of one wave with respect
to another.

“The most important wave characteristic is periodicity, As one cycle of a wave is com-
pleted, another identical cycle is commenced. Icis readily apparent that once the three
basic parameters of a wave are known, the value of the wave can then be ascertained for
all possible values of time— including the future. Ivis this ingredient of the Wave Theory
of Price Action that implies predictability of future price movement.

The Principles of Cyclicalicy state that the price movements of all negotiable equities
consist of the sum of the same set of waves with the same interconnecting relationships
between the wave variables (period, amplitude, and phase). Thus, price history differ-
ences among equities are due solely to minor variations in the values of these wave
vatiables at any given time, with the minor variations in wave variables causing large
vatiations in the sum duc to the large number of waves involved.


sonny antag 28g ~ 1 2anBid

 

 

—=—— 3WIL

 

g@ BAVM

@ aNV v S3AVM N33ML38
BSONaYSsSIG = SSVHd

goldad an —

 

SGNLIId WV,
AVM

 

 

 

 


 

 

pele Analysis

Hurt

There is no known limit co the number of waves in the set that combine to form
equity price movement. Some of these waves have periods measured in minutes, while
others require many years to complete one cycle.

Fortunately, it is nor necessary to identify and sum all such waves in order to make use of
the phenomena. Only a rather small number of waves is needed to permit useful conclu-
sions to be drawn regarding the probable fucure course of equity prices.

Thus, the potentially vast complexities of the Wave Theory of Price Action are reduced
to the relatively simple effects and characteristics of a finite set of waves. The resulting
simplified model is then used as the basis for Cyclic Analysis.

Price waves exhibit a series of extremely significant interrelacionships that are identified
in the Principles of Cyclicality. The most important of these are as follows:

1. The petiods of the component waves vary about, but remain close to,
a particular subset in the infinity of possible subsets of periods. This
relationship is referzed to nominality

2. The ratio of the average periods of contiguous waves in the nominal
‘wave set is a small, whole number, usually two. This is known as the
property of harmonicity.

3. The amplitudes of waves in the nominal set are approximately in

proportion to the wave periods. This is the property of proportionality.

4, ‘The waves in the set are so phased as to cause wave troughs to occur
Simultaneously whenever consistent with harmonicity. This property
is referred to as synchronicity.

5. Total price action consists of the algebraic sum of all waves operating

in a given equity at a given time. This is a statement of the linear
wave combination property and is spoken of as the summation effect.

6. Anadditional relationship, known as the property of variation, will
be dealt with in the next section,

These not-to-be-expected, but highly useful, wave relationships are responsible for most
of the characteristics of equity price movement—including the recurring pattern phe-
nomena of most classical charting methods. The implications are enormous, and the
whole of Cyclic Analysis is founded on these premises.

‘The nominal wave periods referred to in relationship 1 are further simplified for ease of
remembering to a nearly harmonic sec as follows:

 


 

pete Analysis

Hart

WAVE PERIODS

 

 

“This set of wave periods is spoken of as the nominal cyelic model. It should be noted
that an important exception to the period ratio of two occurs in the case of the 18-and
'54-month waves, the periods of which are related by a factor of three.

‘The property of proportionality implies chat the amplicude of the nominal 10-day
wave is twice that of the 5-day wave, ete-— but that the amplitude of the 54-month
wave is three times that of the 18-month wave.

The properties of synchronicity and harmonicity lead to the expectation that at the
time of a trough of any given name, a trough will also occur for each wave of shorter
petiod. Thus, wave troughs tend to form in groups called nest-of lows. The converse is
true at wave crests in that synchronicity and harmonicity preclude time groupings of
wave crests. This effect is responsible for the narrow, sharp bottoms and the rounded,
oscillatory tops that characterize equity price movement,

‘The phenomenon is illustrated in figure 2, where a set of three ideal, synchronous,
harmonic, proportional waves are summed to producea simple composite wave repre-
sentative of price movement. The diamonds below the composite wave show the time
locations of the troughs of waves A, B, and C and the resultant nexts-of-lows. The
triangles above the composite wave are located at the time positions of the crests of
waves A, B, and C and show how wave crests fail to occur in groups. The composite
‘wave itself shows the characteristic sharp bortoms and rounded, oscillatory top found

in actual price movement.

 


 

CRESTS OF C A
CRESTS OF B Aa A A
CRESTS OF A A aN A A

COMPOSITE WAVE

TROUGHS OF C >
TROUGHS OF B > 9
TROUGHS OF A > > 0 } 4
+3
WAVE ¢ °
-3
PERIOD C
= 2x8
41h |
WAVE B 6 |
-I
perio B |
=2KA _

 

 

= it id
PERIOD A

 

ooo

+ |
WAVE A 0
-%

 

 

Figure 2 - Effects of Harmonic Periods and Synchronized Wave Troughs

 


 

Gvelie Analysis:

THE INTERACTION BETWEEN
‘WAVES AND FUNDAMENTAL EVENTS

“The description given so far of price motion as a function of waves is ultra simplistic.
“The complexities encountered in assembling a useful medel of price change can, how-
ever, be conveniently grouped under the heading of wave modulation.

“When three or more ideal waves having certain specified interrelationships are summed
(che periods are not harmonically slated, bucare rather close together), 2 special modifi-
cation of a single ideal wave is produced. Such 2 modified wave is said to be modulated.
‘A modulated wave retains most of the predictive advantages of an ideal wave, but ampli-
tude and period fluctuate slowly as time passes.

In actual price movement, iis found that the waves in the nominal cyclic model are not
single ideal waves at all. Instead, each wave is made up of a bundle of closely spaced
‘waves that sum to form a modulated wave, The average periods of these modulated
waves correspond with those given in the nominal cyclic model.

“The fluctuations in the period and amplitude of these modulated waves are referred to as
the property of variation.

This property of price waves is then further complicated by the effect of fundamental
‘events, The impact of news releases, earnings expectations, product development, and
the like is wholly absorbed as an orderly amplitude change in.a contiguous-period subset
of the nominal cyclic model. The result is additional modulation of the basic price waves.

‘The extent of fundamentally induced amplitude variation and the number of waves
affected depends on the nature of the fundamental eventand on the degree to which this
event alters volume interest in the equity.

“The all-important result of this behavior is that fundamental events do not disturb the
periods or phases of price waves— and therefore do not distur’ price movement timing,
predictions. Instead, the wave amplitude changes involved cause a change in price vols-
tility, Ifa fundamental event has a high impact or is persistent, waves with relatively long,
periods will undergo amplicude changes. When this happens, the equity price will ex:
hibit a relatively long lasting rise or fall (depending on the nature of the fundamental
event) upon which the oscillations of the shorter waves are superimposed. These fairly

   


vee Analysis:

common long lasting rises or falls are termed pseudo trends and may persist for weeks,
months, or even years. They are produced entirely by the normal summing of waves in
the cyclic model, but the longer waves in the model have undergone amplitude changes
asa result of a fundamental event.

From a theoretical standpoint, the interaction of fundamentals with cyclicality can be
considered to be a part of the modulation effect already present.

In the light of this curious behavior of price waves in response to fundamental events,
several previously puzzling aspects of price movement can be explained:

Cyclic predictions, such as the price reversals at nests-of lows, are made
entirely on the basis of past price history. Yer, invariably, when these predic
tions come to pass, a suitable fundamental event is present to “account” for
the resulting price response.

If che subsequent price movement is in accordance with the usual expecta-
tions for a cyclic model with normal wave amplitudes, then it is likely that the
fundamental event cited as “causing” the price reversal was merely the one
event, among the many events that are always available, that was selected by
the analyst as best fitting the circumstances under consideration.

If che subsequent price movement exhibits a pseudo trend, either shore-term
or long-term, then ie is likely char a true fundamental interaction is present.

Farther, it is likely char the fundamental event was in synchronism with the

cyclic model for equity price movement because it was brought about by the
same human decision processes that produce price movement.

2. The use of Cyclic Analysis by a large number of investors does not destroy
the wave behavior of price movement.

Such use constitutes an alteration in volume interest, which is the interme
diate result of any fundamental event. Thus, the effect on price waves is
identical to that produced by any other fundamental event; namely, ampli
tude increase in a subset of waves resulting in volatility change, but no
change in price-reversal timing.

3. Fundamental events such as the activities of Federal agencies in regulating
money supply can be shown to correlate with price behavior around 54-
month price lows and highs. Yet such 54-month waves have been present in
price movement throughout market history, including the time before these
agencies existed.

 

Hart

 


 

yee Anais:

‘This observation is subject to the same explanatory comment as item 1 and serves to
emphasize the point.

Ie is this very important relationship berween fundamental events and price wave ampli-
tudes that makes possible a wholly technical basis for forming stock and commodity
transaction decisions.

THE QUANTIFICATION OF TRENDS
USING WAVE CONCEPTS

One of the most immediate results of the Wave Theory of Price Action is the clarification
of what is meant by trend. This clarification leads directly to operations of great impor-
tance in Cyclic Analysis.

‘The ideas involved are best illustrated by use of a graphic display of wave parameters
known as a Periodogram. Figure 3 depicts a Periodogram for a portion of the nominal
cyclic model.

Ina Periodogram, wave amplitude is plotted as a function of wave period. Each vertical
line of figure 3 is, therefore, an indication of the existence of one of the waves of the
‘nominal cyclic model. A study of chis figure will show that the idealized characteristics of
‘nominality, harmonicity, and proportionality have been incorporated.

Now the property of summation is drawn upon. Suppose that we break down the set of
‘waves that we have called the nominal cyclic model into two mutually exclusive subsets
and that we sum each of these two subsets. By the Associative Law of Addition, the toral
price movement that is the sum of the waves in the nominal cyclic model can be equally
well represented by the sum of the two subset sums.

Let us choose for these two subset sums:

1. The sum of all waves of period equal to, and shorter than, any one arbitrarily
selected wave
2. The sum ofall waves of period longer than the arbitrarily selected wave.

This set division is indicated in figure 3 by the vertical line A (as one of the possible
choices).

Te follows that the composite wave composed of the longer period waves is a smoother
function than the composite wave composed of the shorter period waves. Furthermore,

Kant

 


 

 

WAVE AMPLITUDE

20 40 60 80
WAVE PERIOD (DAYS)

 

100

 

 

Figure 3-A Periodogram Represent

 

In of a Portion of the Nominal Cyclic Model

 


 

vee Anais:

Hast

the latter composite wave, when summed with the former and then overlaid on it for
display, must appear to oscillate regularly above and below the smoother function.

This smooth function composed of the longer period waves is now defined to be the trend
underlying the composite wave composed of the shorter period waves.

From this definition ic is apparent that:

1. Atrend can be established for any desited price wave ofa cyclic mode.

2. There are as many trends operative in price movement as there are
price waves.

3. Some trends can be up at the same time that others are down.

4. IFcomponent wave amplitudes, periods, and phases are known, any

selected trend can be evaluated in the form of a price rate for any
desired time —including the fucure.

Ie is difficult to overstate the practical importance of this definitization of the other-
wise nebulous idea of trend.

Not only is the opportunity presented for the quantitative prediction of a given trend
in the form of a price rate, but similar evaluation can be made simultaneously for all
possible trends. From among these, the trend that is most suitable to support predeter-
mined investment yield objectives can then be selected.

‘Also, meaningful interpretations are now possible for the graphic constructions known
as trendlines, Such lines, drawn by rules derived from Wave Theory, now signal the
occurrence of wave events—and can be used intelligently as action signals. These kinds
of trendlines are renamed valid srendlines, or VTLS, to avoid confusion with the less
specific traditional trendlines.

VTLs can also be employed as graphic tools to aid in the isolation and identification of
component waves from raw price data.

‘The rules for constructions of VILs and the methods of usage ate derailed in
reference 6.

14


12

 

Cvelie Analysis

Sturt

PREDICTING PRICE REVERSAL TIMING

‘The trend and trading cycle definitions thar are derived from Wave Theory are signifi-
cant benefits of great practical utility. Nevertheless, these accomplishments of the wave
viewpoint are minor by comparison with the following two logical extensions:

 

1. Ability to estimate price reversal timing in the future

2. Ability to estimate the extent of the price moves that will occur both prior and
subsequent to anticipated price reversals.

‘These two capabilities provide the potential for a fully-integrated approach to trading
and investing.

‘The first capability will be discussed in this section, and the second in the section to
follow.

It is clear that practical use of wave concepts is dependent on the ability to separate
individual wave components from past price data and to estimate the periods and phases
of these waves. The Cyclic Analysis process used to accomplish these aims is called formal
phasing analysis, ot FPA. The methods employed in conducting an FPA are predomi-
nantly graphical and include the use of computer generated aids. (5) These methods are
described in derail in reference 6.

‘An EPA results in the identification of the time position of each trough of each wave of
the cyclic model active in a given issue at the time of the analysis. From this information,
the average period and the phase of each wave are obtained.

The average wave period and the period variation experienced in the past are then ex-
trapolated from the latest identified wave trough, repeatedly, until the trough timing for
each wave of interest is estimated for any desired portion of future time. In this way,
estimated time positions (with tolerance limits) for future nests-of-lows are established.

Powerful assistance in the process of wave trough location is provided by the properties
‘of nominality, harmoniciry, and synchronicity through the following considerations:

1, The resulting wave period estimates must fall within a known range of the
nominal Wave periods.


 

 

Grete Analysis

Kant

2, The known harmonic relationships between contiguous wave periods must
not be violated.

3. The estimated future time positions of successive wave troughs must
continue the synchronized pattern of trough locations established in past
time.

Price reversals in the upward direction are then expected to take place at the estimated
times established for future nests-of-lows—within the tolerance range determined in
the FPA. The number of wave troughs involved in a nest-of lows provides an immedi-
ate indication of the potential strength of the reversal.

Price reversals in the downward direction are predicted by establishing the estimated
time positions of future wave crests, Since these crests are not synchronized, the actual
component wave whose crest is most likely to be associated with the price high is
determined from predictions of fucure trend and the resulting time translation of price
high relative to wave crest.

From the foregoing, it can be seen that Wave Theory provides a way to estimate in a
logical fashion the future time of occurrence of price reversals that will be followed by
price moves of any desired magnitude in either direction.

The Cyclic Analysis methodology used in the prediction of price-reversal timing is
demonstrated in figure 5. This is a typical graphic display of the kind in use for the
analysis of stocks and commodities. (5) The price and time gridlines normally present
have been removed for the sake of clarity in reproduction.

‘An FPA has been performed and the wave trough locations are indicated by diamonds
below the price bars. The Periodogram at the bottom of the chart is computer-gener-
ated and provides estimates of the wave components active in this particular equity at
the time of the analysis. This Periodogram and the smooth envelope enclosing the
price bars are the primary computer-generated tools used in carrying out the FPA.

‘The average wave periods resulting from the FPA are shown to the far right of the
associated rows of diamonds, and several of the extrapolated furure time positions of
nests-of-lows are indicated. The expectation demonstrated is for a price reversal in the
upward direction to occur in approximately two to three weeks, powered by the rever-
sal ofall waves up to and including the nominal 18-month wave.

13


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VOL=3.2

ido tio 120 ida 140 180 180 140 180 190 2do

 

 

FCI WEEK ENDING: 15 JUN 1973 ORILY
ih |
ame eo
[-6- eet
°
0 0
0 ° °
o 0 0 o 0 0 0
o 0 o 9 0 0 9 oo 00 0 0
wb so 60 7 60 90
lll cull

IS
iS
7 80 85 90 85

 

 

Figure 4 A Typical Forming Phasing Analysis

—

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FCI WEEK ENDING: 7 SEP 1973 DAILY VOL=4.0
«
0 > e360
i ; cs a oe
0 0 0 0 0 oe oe oe e140
oo oo ¢ 0 0 o 0 > O Dm oe mH OD 1070
"4b 2 30 4D so 8D 70 > sd ido tio 120 130 140 180 160 140 180 190 200
HLL | | | | 5
repeoelboelbbhbOT TET TLL

 

 

Figure 5 Results of Price Reversal Timing Prediction

15


16

 

pete Analysis

Kant

‘The tabulation shown on the chart is known asa current cyclic model and is a compact way
of organizing the information gained from an FPA. In this table, the periods of the
nominal cyclic model are shown to the left for comparison with the actual FPA average
petiods obtained. Wave phase is tabulated in terms of time elapsed since the last identi-
fied wave trough. The arrows shown are developed from phase status and show the
current direction of action of each wave. The columns at the far right contain numbers
derived from average wave periods which permit construction of the graphic devices to
ptice-move prediction that will be described in the next section.

Figure 6 shows the same equity at a later time with the price-reversal timing predictions
from Figure 5 overlaid for comparison. Itis seen that the predicted timing was very close
indeed and that the reversal resulted in a price move from 32 to the 60's. Except for
predictable minor oscillations, prices subsequently moved uninterruptedly to the region
of 90 before the effects of this powerful nest-of-lows subsided.

PREDICTING THE EXTENT OF PRICE MOVES

Foretelling when a price reversal i likely to occur is @ powerful capability, bue the ability
to similarly estimate how far prices are most likely to move following a reversal even
before such a reversal takes place is, without question, the crowning achievement of Wave
Theory.

‘This potential is provided by a graphical construction, unique to the wave viewpoint,
called the fiaure line of demarcation, or FLD.

‘An FLD is a theoretical barrier, constructed in future chart time, dividing price-time
space into two parts, The interaction, at some later time, of actual prices with this barrier
is used to answer critical wave questions. The wave question of primary interest in price
prediction is: “How much farther is a given wave and its associated trend likely to drive
prices before that wave forms its next trough or crest?”

Figure 7 demonstrates how an FLD works for the case of a single, ideal price wave.

In Figure 7a, a price wave is shown up to the time A. The dashed wave section marker
FLD isa replica of the price wave, but displaced to the right (into future time) by one-
half of the period of the price wave.

In Figure 7b, the same situation is shown excepr that time has progressed to D and the
FLD has been extended in to the future by a corresponding amount. Notice that the
price wave has interacted with its FLD at C.


 

 

Opetie Analysis

Kurt

Figure 7 demonstrates that an FLD is possessed of the following characteristics:

1. In future time, the FLD associated with a given wave is rising where the
wave will be falling when that time is reached.

2, In future time, the FLD associated with a given wave forms a trough
where the wave will form a crest when that time is reached, (See time B in
Figure 7.) Similarly, the FLD forms a crest where the wave will form a
trough when that time is reached.

3. When a wave intersects its FLD, that wave is one-balf way along on its
‘move down or up, depending on whether the crossing is down or up,
respectively. (See Time C in Figure 7.)

While the first two properties are very useful, in effect, painting a picture in furure
time of wave action to be, itis the third FLD characteristic that provides the poten-
tial for prediction of price-move magnitude.

Although figure 7 illustrates the FLD concept, actual price movement is far more
complex than the simple wave of this figure, and the operation of an FLD for these
more complex wave forms is much more difficult to visualize.

Let us assume that the component waves active in a given equity at a given time have
been isolated by the FPA process so that estimates of wave period and phase are
available. An FLD associated with any given wave is then constructed by displacing
past price data forward in time by one-half of the estimated period of the selected
‘wave, Such an FLD can be constructed for each wave of a current cyclic model.

‘The ideal operation of an FLD is distorced by the fact that the displaced price data
consists of a complex sum of waves rather than a simple single wave, Nevertheless,
the wave properties of harmonicity and proportionaliry combine in price movement
in such a manner as to permit extremely useful conclusions to be drawn from the
interrelationships of prices and FLD's.

For example, when prices are below an FLD and rising, the price at intersection with
the FLD is theoretically half along on the way up from the price low at the last
trough of the wave on which the FLD is based. Similarly, when prices are above an
FLD and falling, the price at intersection is theoretically halfway along on the way
down from the price high at the last crest of the wave on which the FLD is based.

In practice, such FLD price move projections are refined by evaluation of trend
underlying the wave on which the FLD is based. FLD projections are then expected
to be undershot when underlying trend opposes the anticipated move, met when
trend is flat, and overshot when trend supports the anticipated move.

17


 

 

b. “Same price wave and FLD at a later
__time = -

po Feo

 

 

 

 

mae \/

\ | \ :
{ reno — Rt |
dest [—='p PERIOD

 

     
 

 

 

 

Figure 6 - The Future Line of Demarcation

18


vee Analysis:

 

Hart

In the case ofa downward price objective, the property of synchronicity makes possible
a further refinement in the accuracy of the projection. By constructing two FLD’s
based on two different component waves, the analyst is able to find two different FLD
projections applying to the same price move, one of which is to be undershot and the
other overshor. The future price move is then expected to terminate in the price range
bounded by the two FLD projections. This price range, when combined with the
price revercal time range predicted from an FPA, results in a price-time box for a future
price move.

The FLD is an extremely versatile tool and is used in numerous ways in Cyclic Analy-
sis, For example, FLD’s can be constructed equally well in past time. By observing the
degree to which actual price movement fulfilled past-time FLD predictions, the trend
underlying any given wave can be further quantified. This information can then be
used to refine future-time FLD projections.

 

Past-time FLD’s are also invaluable in the FPA process of isolating and identifying
component wave trough time positions.

Further, because of the precise nature of FLD’s and their tight relationships to wave
events, FLD’s become near ideal future-time action signal generators.

But the real power of the FLD resides in the meaning of the patterns formed by FLD
sets, One particularly useful pattern is discussed in the next section.

Figures 8 and 9 show an example of the use of a single FLD in the prediction of the
magnitude of a future price move.

In this instance, an FPA provided a period estimate of 73.6 weeks as the current-time
equivalent of the nominal 18-month wave active in the Dow Jones Industrial Average
(DJIA). In figure 8, the FLD associated with this wave is shown, and prices are seen.
rising from the last 73.6-week wave trough to an intersection with the FLD in mid-
February of 1972. At that time the FLD intersection created a price projection to 1044
(the price move from the last 73.6-week price low to the FLD break added to the price
at the FLD break). The following eleven weeks are also shown, with prices making
progress toward the objective.

In figure 9, subsequent weeks are shown through 2 February 1973. At the time of this
chart, the price high for this nominal 18-month wave had formed, and prices had
reached (and slightly exceeded) the objective. Following weeks saw a to-be-expected
price decline ro the vicinity of 880 as the next 18-month nest-of lows came about.

19


 

 

Celie Analysis

Hurt

In this example, trend underlying the 18-month wave was flat as the objective was ap-
proached, and as a consequence the price projection was expected to be approximately
met (as it was) rather than overshot or undershot. Thus, more than 10 months in ad-
vance, this FLD price projection correctly predicted a price rise in the DJIA from about
920 to over 1040.

Furthermore, not only can long range price objectives such as this be established, but
Cyclic Analysis provides the means whereby the extent and timing of all of the interven-
ing price oscillations may be similarly evaluated.


 

 

bute WEEK ENDING: § MAY 1972 WEEKLY

 

so so r vo 160 1

 

0 200
S
20

 

 

 

 

 

30 180 4
75 90 as

ll gall

Meeks °

 

 

Figure 7~ A Single FLD Price Prediction

a4


 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 8 - Results of a Single FLD Price Prediction

22


 

vet Analysis:

Fast

THE CASCADE PRINCIPLE

One of the multiple FLD patterns alluded to in the last section is of key importance in
the development of a complete trading system. This is the versatile FLD cascade pat-
tern.

Single FLD projections are a significant achievement but have one shortcoming. One-
half of the price move projected by a price-FLD interaction is already in the past at the
time the projection takes place. The FLD cascade pattern overcomes this deficiency.

‘Aca time when prices are falling, it will be found that some FLD’s will be above prices
and falling also. The longer prices have been falling, the greater will be the number of
FLD’s found above prices

“The reverse is true for rising prices: FLD's will be found below prices and rising; and
the longer prices have been rising, che greater will be the number of FLD's found below

prices.

 

‘Asa price-reversal point is neared, these FLD's will exhibit spacings such that a price
break of an FLD based on a short-period wave will predict a price move that will break
a longer-wave FLD. This break will in turn predict a larger price move that will break
an FLD based on a still longer wave, etc. Such a set of successive potential FLD breaks
predicting a self-propagating series of price moves is called a cascade, and the associated
FLD’ are said to form an FLD cascade pattern.

‘This immeasurably valuable property of multiple FLD's makes possible the prediction
of the extent of a postreversal price move before the reversal rakes place. Iv is also the
property that makes it possible to use price breaks of FLD’s based on very short period
waves as action signals for purchases or sales based on much longer trading cycles
having much larger impacts on price movement.


relic Analysis

RISK-LIMIT LOGIC

It is now seen that the Wave Theory of Price Action has the inherent potential for the
following powerful capabilities: predetermination of transaction yields prediction of price-
reversal timings and prediction of postreversal price move magnitude.

One final capability is necessary before a completely integrated and self-contained mode
of operation is possible in stock and commodity trading, This is the limitation of capital
loss in the event of transaction failure

‘Wave Theory satisfies this requirement in the following way:

"Assume that a potential transaction is foreseen based on an upcoming price reversal. This
price reversal will take place at the price low associated with an identified, trend-trans-
lated wave crest.

Ifan FLD or VTLis used to generate an action signal for transaction entry, the probabili-
ties are aligned in favor of wave events responsible for the price reversal having indeed
started by the time transaction entry is made. Therefore, probabilities are similarly aligned
in favor of price movement not doubling back to the price associated with the responsible
‘wave trough or crest before the transaction objective has been mer. A logical stop-loss level
is thus established just below the price at the last crading cycle wave trough (for long transac
tions) or just above the price at the last rading cycle time-translated wave crest (for short
transactions).

With this final link in place, Cyclic Analysis can be used to set up a complete operational
system tailored for any desired sec of investment or trading goals.

 

Hart

 


Gpelte Analysis

Kant

A COMPLETE TRADING SYSTEM

AA fully integrated trading system must have the following characteristics and capa-
bilities:

1. Permit preplanned investment goals

2. Supply issue selection criteria

3. Permie pretransaction evaluation and comparison for transaction
selection purposes

4, Provide for automatically triggering transaction entry

5. Provide for intratransaction analysis for the purpose of optimizing

transaction termination.

‘As these capabilities are discussed individually in the following paragraphs, it will be
seen that the preplanning of investment goals is closely tied in with several of the other
capabilities of the system.

 

Issue selection is a particularly simple proposition in the application of Cyclic Analy-
sis, Since the approach is wholly technical, the industry presented, the products sup-
plied, and other fundamental considerations are incidental. The equity is considered
only as a set of price-time data against which Cyclic Analysis procedures are to be
applied. In practice, a set of several equities is maintained in an analyzed condition.
Such a sets called a ssable, Criteria for stable selection include corporate stability, price
volatility, equity fluidity, and sufficient uninterrupted data to permit computerized
analysis operations. These elements are judged with investment goals in mind.

Pretransaction evaluation is a direct fallout of the Wave Theory analytical processes
discussed in previous sections. To develop this point, the following definitions are
needed:

1. Transaction risk: che probability that any single transaction will
result in a capital loss instead of a capital gain.

2. Risk potential or risk: the amount of capital that may be lost if the
transaction fails.

25


 

26

elie Analysis

3. Profit potential or potential: the amount of capital chat will be gained

if the transaction succeeds.

4. Percentage potential: potential expressed as a percentage of invested
capital.

5. Potensial-risk ratio or PR ratio: the ratio of potential to risk.

In practice, investment goals are preset in terms of these parameters. For example, trans~
action risk should be set at .5 or less. The PR ratio should be set at 3.0 or more. And the
percentage potential should be set at 20% or more.

To illustrate, let us suppose that Cyclic Analysis has identified an upcoming possible
long transaction by the usual means of trading cycle potential evaluation and FPA pre-~
diction of price-teversal timing. Assume that an FLD cascade partern predicts a price
move to 31 from an expected transaction entry price of about 19. An FLD price objec-
tive for the trading cycle low at the upcoming reversal leads to the expectation that the
stop-loss can be set at about 17.

Simple relationships connect these transaction variables as follows:

Be (PRxSL)+S
PR+1
%= 100x(S=B)
B

Where B = Buy price
PR= — Potential-risk ratio
SL= — Stop-loss price
S = Sell Price
9% = Percentage potential

Similar relationships are available for short transactions and for margined and com-
modity trades.

In the example cited, these relationships would be used to produce the following
tabulation:

Fast


 

Qvelie Analysis

 

 

 

EVALUATION OF LONG TRANSACTION
Stop

Sell 31 Loss 17
Buy PR %Gross
21.67 2 43.05
20.50 3 51.22
19.80 4 56.57
19.33 5 60.37
19.00 6 63.16
18.75 7 65.33
18.56 8 67.03
18.40 9 68.48
18.27 10 69.68

 

 

 

 

 

From this tabulation we can arrive at the following conclusions:

1, Abuyar the price of 19 would result in 2 PR ratio of 6.0 and a
percentage porential of 63.16%, both quite acceptable.

2. The maximum acceptable buy price is 20.5 because that price
‘would result in the minimum acceptable PR ratio of 3.0. The
resulting percentage potential would be
51.22, also acceptable.

Hunt

27


28

 

pele Analysis:

last

“The following points should be noted: this evaluation is produced prior to the price
reversal on which the planned transaction is based; this evaluation can be compared
with those of other potential transactions in order to select the transaction that is most
advantageous; and any desired investment goals can be implemented at will by simply
changing the acceptable parameter values. Thus, the ability to conduct transaction
selection on a quantitative comparative basis has been achieved —along with the
preplanning of investment goals.

\TLs and FLD's provide the action signals needed to prevent errors in wave assump-
tions from increasing transaction risk to unacceptable levels. Once an action signal is
selected, equity price movement is tracked ro determine the exact transaction entry
time, or preset orders are issued to the broker.

‘Oncea transaction is entered, itis continuously monitored by means of intratransaction
Cyclic Analysis. Wave and price events are predicted, and actual events are compared
with these predictions co determine the mansaction progres situation.

‘There are three transaction progress situations: on track, better than expected, and
worse than expected. Each transaction progress situation is associated with definitive
modes of transaction termination in such a way as to minimize losses and maximize
gains.

If the transaction is classified as either better than expected or worse than expected,
then a change in the mode of transaction termination.

It should be realized that the operation of a trading system such as the one described
here produces a net yield based on results of a series of transactions. For example,
suppose, that average transaction risk for a number of transactions taking place during
a year’s time is as low as 0.5 —meaning that as many as loses are incurred 2s gains.
Such an operation can still be immensely profitable if the PR ratios average 3.0 or
bercer, since the average gain is then 3 timesd the average loss.

Cyclic Analysis has the potential of achieving transaction risks on the order of 0.2 or
0.3, with correspondingly increased profitability.


 

Ovelle Analisis

onclusion

 

Hart

‘The steadily accumulating and increasingly convincing evidence of the cyclic char-
acter of many natural and man-made phenomena provides a fascinating field for
study and research. One result of such research, the Wave Theory of Price Action,
grew out of an investigation of man’s decision-making processes. Continuing re-
search may eventually uncover a common causative factor behind this and other
similar, but seemingly causatively unrelated, phenomena.

In the area of the practical application of this new cydlic knowledge, there is licle
question that continuing research will lead to increased understanding of the Wave
Theory of Price Action. Also, the applications methods and techniques embodied in
Cyclic Analysis will undoubtedly be improved, particularly in the area of computer-
generated aids.

In the meantime, the present state of the art has proven extremely useful. Cyclic
‘Analysis methods have been in the field since December 1971. The techniques in-
volved ate documented in detail in reference 6, and the computerized analysis aids
described here are available as reference 5.

29


 

 

Grete Analysis

ummary

 

Hunt

The Wave Theory of Price Action refutes the random-walk theory while adequately
explaining why catlier studies resulted in the random-walk hypothesis.

In addition, a theoretical basis for technical analysis of stock price movement is
established, explaining both the successes and the failures of classical charting
methods,

Interactive relationships exist between fundamental factors and wave forcing func-
tions such that the nature of both is preserved.

‘A body of applications techniques known as Cyclic Analysis has evolved from Wave
‘Theory. These techniques permit, for the first time, an integrated, self-contained,
and completely technical approach to trading and investing in the stock and com-
modity markets.

 

“The methodology has been field rested since 1971 and is well documented. Com-
puter-generated analysis aids are available.


 

Getic Analysis

rences

 

Karat

1. Bachelies, Louis. 1900. Theory of Speculation. Ann. Sci. Ecole.
Norm. Sup. Vol. 3, No. 1018. Paris: Gauthier-Villars.

2. Nelson, S.A. 1902. The ABC of Stock Speculation, Nelson.
Republished 1934, New York: Taylor

3. __Elliort, RA. 1939. The Wave Principle, (a series). Financial World
90. Also included in: —. 1946. Natures Law. New York: Elliot.
4, Hurst, IM. 1971. The Profit Magic of Stock Transaction Timing.

Tiaders Press, Inc, Greenville, SC

5. Stock and Commodity Chare Services. San Francisco: CycliTec
Services, 500 Sansome Street.

3f


LEGENDARY J.M. HURST CYCLES
TRADING & TRAINING COURSE
AVAILABLE AGAIN FOR THE FIRST
TIME IN A QUARTER OF ACENTURY

 

 

The JM. Hurst Cycles
Trading and Training Course

In the late 1960's, a small group of private
investors in California rented time on a main-
frame computer—the only kind that existed
at that time—and asked an aerospace engi-
ner, J.M. Hurst, to help them in their stock
market research. The results of over 20,000
hours of computerized data analysis were dis-
tilled and revealed in Hurst’s 1970 book, THE,
PROFIT MAGIC OF STOCK TRANSAC-
TION TIMING, which has become a classic
work on cycle analysis.

In the early 1970’s, Hurst authored a full-
length course on cyclical analysis and on how
to apply it to actual trading. It was published
by Cyclitech Services, and Hurst taught the
principles of this course in a series of semi-
nars for a year or two. The material in this
course is considered by many to be the clearest
and most thorough material ever made avail-
able for those interested in learning about
cycles and how to trade profitably with them.
‘There were only 250 copies of the course ever
sold, It has been out of print for the past 25
years.

 

 

In the mid 1970's, Hurst an intensely private
individual, disappeared and has not been heard
from again We have had many customers over
the years who were tremendously interested
in Hurst and his work and were extremely in-
terested in contacting him. They wanted any-
thing he had written or done beyond his
PROFIT MAGIC book, but until now, there
has been nothing available. I had only heard
about this course in “rumor” form for years.
Only recently did I actually locate a copy of
this course. It had been a dream of mine for
years to preserve this curse for posterity and
to make it available again to the trading and
investing community.

Consisting of ten manuals spanning nearly six-
teen hundred pages and eleven full length au-
dio tapes, reproducing it has proven to be an
expensive, but exciting and fulfilling challenge.
‘We at Traders Press are proud to make this
superb course available once again. It is avail-
able exclusively direct from Traders Press.

Edward D. Dobson
President
Traders Press

 

 

 

 

This course is written by J.M. Hurst, author of THE PROFIT MAGIC OF STOCK TRANSACTION
TIMING, a classic work on cyclical analysis. Mr, Hurst is a mathematical analyst who, after 25 years
in the aerospace field, spent 30,000 hours researching the nature of stock and commodity price
motion,


HURST CYCLE TRAINING COURSE CONTAINS...
+ 200-HOUR COURSE « TEXT MATERIAL AND WORKBOOK
+ 10 FULL LESSONS, OVER 400 PAGES ¢ SELF-EXAMINATION WITH KEY
+ MORE THAN 100 ILLUSTRATIONS « PERMANENT BINDER WITH

CASSETTE STORAGE
+10 CASSETTE NARRATIONS

Course Contents

* Lesson 1: How Price Action Works

+ Lesson 2: From Cyclic Concepts to
Trading Decisions

+ Lesson 3: Setting up the Cyclic
Model

+ Lesson 4: Setting up a Transaction

+ Lesson 5: How to Deal with Tops and
Short Selling

+ Lesson 6: Cyelic Analysis During a
Transaction’

+ Lesson 7: Terminating a Transaction

+ Lesson 8: How to Shape Strategy and
Plan Capabilities

+ Lesson 9: Refining Your Capabilities

+ Lesson 10: ‘A Reference Summary of
Cyclic Analysis

Eleven professionally produced audio tapes accom-
pany approximately 1,600 pages of written mate-
tial, which includes hundreds of 11 x 17 fold out,
full-scale illustrative charts. A workshop and final
self-examination are included.

Item #1400 $495 *40% restocking fee

Shipping weight 18 pounds. Please add the following shipping costs to your order.
Domestic UPS, $15; DHL Domestic, $23; Foreign by courier service, $100; Canada UPS, $40

 

 

    
  

 

 
 

Traders Press Inc.© peeclieer
PO Box 6206 FAX 864-298-0221
‘i Tradersprs@aoLcom
Greenville, SC 29606 hgptyponutenderapressicom

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

J. M. Hurst is a legend to knowledgeable individuals interested and involved in the study of cyclical price movement in the
financial markets. By training and background an aerospace engineer, he was the first true pioneer in the computerized research
into the nature of stock price action, devoting many years and over 20,000 computer hours to this study. His conclusions were
first documented in his groundbreaking classic, The Profit Magic of Stock Transaction Timing.

‘The work of Hurst inspired cycles analysts who came later, and represents the most important factor behind the work later done
by such cycles luminaries as Peter Eliades, Jim Tillman, Walter Bressert, and Brian Millard. Indeed, Peter Eliades says that
“sometimes a single moment changes all the ones that follow. For me it was the discovery of Hurst’s book. It was responsible for
changing my life.”

Itisa little known fact that Hurst authored not just his book which introduced his ideas and summarized his research, but that he
also produced a compehensive training course which teaches the student how to apply his principles to actual trading and
investing. This course, available exclusively through Traders Press, has proven valuable to those select few who have availed
themselves of the guidance it offers on how to put the principles discovered by Hurst into actual practice,

This booklet gives an overview and summary of the main points of Hurst’s eycles course. The reader who wishes to progress
farther and to take full advantage of the work done by Hurst is encouraged to consider acquiring his full training course. It may
be responsible for changing YOUR life.

‘Traders Press publishes and distributes hun-
dreds of books, courses, and other educa-
tional materials of interest to traders and
investors. A free copy of our 100 page Trad-
cers Catalog is available by contacting Trad-
cers Press.

 

Serving traders since 1975

ere
ay 90000
25h Shakey
‘TRADERS PRESS, INC.
PO Box 6206
9°780934'38056!

Greenville, SC 29606

     
 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 
