ASTRO-CYCLES
AND
SPECULATIVE MARKETS

by
L. J. Jensen

oa
.
L ‘
3 [=
i fs
Le
LAMBERT-GANN PUBLISHING COMPANY, INC.

Pomeroy, Washington 99347

1978


Copyright 1978 by L. J. Jensen
Copyright 1935, 1938 and 1961
‘by L. J: Jensen

 

Published by

Lambert-Gann Publishing Co, Ine.

'P. 0. Hox 0, Pomeroy, Wa. 99347

To
LLEWELLYN GEORGE
Pioneer in American astro-research, who gave mea
world-wide audience from 1931 to 1954 in his BULLE-
TINA quarterly; Arthur I. Boreman, publisher of the
MERCHANT'S TRADE JOURNAL, who never edited
cone word from my businets trend comments every month
from 1933 to 1959; and, to Billy Jones who insisted this
material should be printed and published as « heritage
‘to others to expand their success.

 


CONTENTS

PREFACE,

Section 1
MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS
‘The Problem of Economic Causation
‘The Vibration Spectrum -
‘The Sun-Spot Cycle (aren o er Seon ee
. The Planetary Cycles . eee
. The Uranus Cycle Seneeeenae
Some Conclusions

auaene

Section II
ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION
Foreword

1. Mundane Rulerships PSE EC eESEEEES

2, Progressions and Transits . Sarees

3. Synthesis—Estimating Economic Trends 5

4, The Houses in Mundane and Corporation Charts .

5. Eclipses

6. Interpretation of the Planets in Houses and Signs .

7. Casting Mundane Charts... . .

8. Notes, Base Charts, Keys. 0... 1

9. The United States Birth Chart. 5...

(0. An “Over”-Simplified Method of

Astro-Cycle Interpretation . . 2 . . -

11, The Aspects or Angles Between Planets...

12. Combining Sign-Houses and House-Signs and Aspects .

13. Planetary Aspects or Angular Relationships
14. Formation of a Market Forecast

Section IIT
MARKET CHARTS
Foreword
1. Geometrical Fundamentals... . 2.
2. First Steps in Charting . eee ee
3, Resistance, Objective and Trend | Beet

vil

25
31
35
39
42
43
45
46
61

70

82

101
103
107


4. The Daily Chart.
5. Supplementary Helps

Section IV.
1, First Steps Putting It Together
2. Timing Elements .
3. Charting the Price Range Data .
4, Estimating Prospects for a Locality
(Business Trends, Weather, Earthquakes, Disasters)

 

CHARTS AND MAPS (Partial List—see Text)
Outline Map of the World with Zodiacal Rulerships
Outline Map of the United States with Rulerships .
Radix Great Mutation ace
Rotational Conjunction 1921

Declaration of Independence (United States Chart) .

New York Stock Exchange .

Liverpool Grain Exchange

Bank of England . See
Chicago Board of Trade. . . . .
United States Steel Corporation .

CONTENTS

14
17

121
124
129
132

29

47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54

PREFACE

‘The bulk of the material in this edition was published in three
brochures copyright 1935 and 1938. A condensation of the third
brochure on charting market statistics was issued as one of many market
studies while I was an analyst for a New York Stock Exchange firm.
‘This edition comprises all of the original three works with some addi-
tional material in order to bridge the three into a continuity plus a
number of working examples of methods which apply the principles
involved.

Section I offers some introduction to working applications of what I
term astro-cycles. The sources are the long established astronomical
orbits of the principal planets in that small niche of the Universe which
comprises the Solar System of the Earth. For example, applied to cycle
cadence is Jupiter and Saturn with their apparent conjunction ap-
proximately every 20 years. Many of these planetary cycle applications
were original when published in 1934, but since then have been lifted
out of context and embraced by publications issued in Calcutta, Hong
Kong, London, New York and Los Angeles. The plagiarism is of little
importance but the widespread practice has brought to attention the
unquestioned validity of the data.

‘The purpose of the material in Section II was a notebook reference
manual to present the salient procedures and elements of astro-cycle
applications to mundane affairs. Public psychology, business cycles, the
price swings of speculative commodity and stock markets, wars, famines,
major weather trends, ete, have innumerable keys to answers by this
concept.

Very little of the material has been co-ordinated before in print so that
student might quickly grasp the more significant factors. Separately
most of the factors have been generally known but not the why and how
of mixing them. Part of this condition has been intentional: why throw
to the winds hard won data? There is another side though. Modern
society has boxed itself in, painted itself into a dangerous corner. Out-
wardly it is in great shape in its apparent affluence, mechanical achieve-
ments and productive know-how. Actually it is a shell of wasted
resources, mountainous debt, galloping inflation, and eroding moral
concepts. An Age is at an end which is out of date, primitive and self-
Tighteous with the chest-pounding adage that man is captain of his fate.
He may perish unless he gets down to the reality of Natural Law.

Section II contains no pretense of giving all the answers to modern
problems, However, it does offer a means to a well-hidden phase of
‘Truth which might lead to a foundation of security for those diligent
enough to examine and test the data. That such an approach infuriates
those who proudly hold that nature has no design, no purpose and no
form of continuity ceased to concern me more than fifty years ago.

 

 

 

 


viii PREFACE

‘A major factor in the workings of Natural Law is cosmic radiation,
that enormous vibrational power of the Sun which is reflected, deflected
‘and mixed with the vibrational forces of planets striking the Earth in a
constantly varying array. Often it is ponderously stated that none of
these vibrations are strong enough to affect a human being. In almost
‘the same breath they talk about the possible uses of solar energy. No
matter if proven, or hallowed, or generally accepted as a fact of life it
is always easy to find some clown who vehemently disagrees. Perhaps
the answer is not the defense of the how and the why, but does it,work,
does it give results?

In my youth it was generally accepted that the claim electrical sig-
nals could be transmitted without wires was a complete hoax, equal
only to the idea that man could fly in anything but a balloon. On these
‘two points alone college professors rated as scientific authorities, plus
office holders who felt they protected the people, were around giving
lectures warning against such idiotic claims.

Here are methods and their working factors of close to a half a cen-
tury of producing results. Tt is an esoteric subject; it is not for the
average investor who really gets his kicks putting money into an array
of stocks and then every day sweating the price movements. Over the
years he usually ends up with one winner and ten losers. This material
is for the serious winner who has the attitude of a navigator and im-
personally obeys his computations. He is not in markets for kicks but
for profits.

Section III uses some of the basic factors of Section II and applies
them to a system which is a coupling of time and price. It is a simple
charting of market prices. It is so simple any change or revision in the
basic premises involved destroys its effectiveness. It will not work prop-
erly with logarythmic scales, and the dependence on time brooks no
shortcuts or distortion in the arithmetic scale.

September 1977 L. J. Jensen

Section I

MAJOR TRENDS
IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

Copyright 1935 by
1L. J. Jensen
AIL Righis Reserved


CHAPTER ONE

THE PROBLEM
OF ECONOMIC CAUSATION

‘The habit of popular thinking lies along the vein that all economic
problems are merely debatable theories. All economic affairs are viewed
from much the same perspective as religious or political opinions; as
something entirely dependent on the particular prejudice which happens
to fit the environmental or geographical viewpoint. So it seems strange
to suggest that there may be immutable laws that motivate the pey-
chology of masses of people, and that imponderable forces operate in
economic affairs without respect for the hopes and ambitions of men. At
first glance it might appear that such a postulate should be the source
of considerable popular derision, but perhaps only because the field of
observation has been studiously ignored in modern times. At any rate,
there appear to be several definite forces underlying the ebb and flow of
the economic indices.

Tt is the purpose, in this brochure and the companion volumes of the
series, to examine considerable evidence bearing on economic causation.
‘The observations contained in this brochure will deal entirely with the
longer or major trends in American economic history. In the search for
causes the prime interest will be, not to align the historical events with
the coincident statistical business record and dovetail technical results
with psychological effects; but to go deeper and attempt to trace those
natural causes which appear to motivate the changes in mass psychology
and result in given effects. After locating the source or cause we shall
then examine the manner in which natural psychological cycles coincide
with the cycles of statistical business activity.

In confining popular economic observations to a few of the generalities
like supply and demand, costs, available markets and distribution, labor,
et cetera, the subject of economics is principally concerned with statisti-
cal results and psychological effects. Underlying causes of such phenom-
ena as the business cycle have only been studied in a superficial manner.
‘This will probably continue to be the situation until the search for
causes is taken out of the field of statistics and placed in the field of
Psychology. At present, causes of economic fluctuation are either con-
sidered so remote and intangible that they cannot be defined, or else
they are discarded as impractical. Economic effects, or rather statistical
results, are paramount. We see economic effects all about us; we deal
daily in effects, read of them in the news, see them in moving pictures,
and hear them from others. Yet in confining all of our economic thinking
to effects we are much like the remaining few who believe that the en-
tire place of medicine is to be strictly curative and disregard efforts of
anything preventive. Obviously, some approach toward analyzing eco-
nomic causes is in order, if an economy is to be planned or any estimates
are to be taken of the future,

 


MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

confined to

 

Teueht Be explained from the viewpoint of the doctrine of free eal sshicn
faite, art men is supreme, the source of both his success and hin
ind therefore the complete master of his fate. We might eves

explanations tie up with effects, again ignoring causes
sic causes of economic effects are as intangible as life i
fanngt be located with any of the sens ich os heating coy REE
Aes aretha ho hari cg or a
Buniyesatnot be found in laboratory test tubes, the statistical reviews of
{ctivity, security prices, or in the opinions of celebrities When

We search for causes in these sources, we aa
Phase of economic effect, ee NE AE SMP dealing with another

We cannot feel, see or taste

 

 

of causation ne te SGP aside from these natura law we lesve the eld

Sree, i mode dstop saa eyo the fon a
a on mae eae

entirely bound up im the laws of ions ee

 

CHAPTER TWO

THE VIBRATION SPECTRUM

Sound, light and heat are all forms of vibration. Each field has its
‘own spectrum or scale of vibration. Sound is an impulse of air striking
the organs of hearing with a perceptible effect. Light is that action
wherein objects are made visible. Heat is another force, similar to sound
and light, in that it has a rate of vibration also. Each of these natural
actions have their spectra occupying niches in the huge vibrational
spectrum of nature.

‘Modern science indicates that all bodies, unless at the absolute zero

of temperature—assigned by physicists as minus 273 degrees Centigrade
—emit vibrations. Most of these vibrations are not visible to the eye,
sensitive to the touch or audible to the ear. The frequencies, or rates of
vibration, vary from a few cycles per second to millions of cycles pet
second and include everything from sound waves to gamma and cosmic
rays.
‘A crude illustration of the huge vibration spectrum may be made by
drawing a pencil line about a foot long. At the left end of this line
mark en (X). This point illustrates the rate of vibration of the musical
note “B,” four octaves below middle “C” on the piano scale, or thirty
cycles per second. Move to the right on the pencil line about a haif
inch from (X) and mark (Y). This point represents a frequency of
5,120 cycles per second, the high musical note “E,” four octaves above
middle “C.” As the rate of vibration rises above approximately 16,000
cycles per second—the pitch of some squeaks—it ceases to be audible
to the human ear. We take this approximate half inch section on the
pencil line to represent the sound spectrum niche of the major vibra-
tional scale.

From the point (¥) move to the right on the pencil line—to establish
the beginning of the electro-magnetic spectrum—about three inches,
marking the point as (Z). This point represents the beginning of the
modern radio spectrum. Moving to the right on the pencil line another
three inches will approximate the radio spectrum, this right hand point
representing frequencies of about sixty thousand kilocycles and wave-
lengths of five meters or less.

Again move to the right on the pencil line, after leaving a gap of
about an inch to represent the lapping of the short wave radio band and
the frequencies of the infra-red and heat rays, the center of which
represents the rate of vibration of the color yellow, or approximately a
rate of vibration of 500,000,000,000,000 cycles per second. In this spec-
trum is the frequency range where the human eye is able to directly
detect the electro-magnetic vibrations we know as light and color. The
eye continues this ability until the rate of vibration increases above that
of the color violet.

‘Move to the right on the pencil line another quarter inch and mark

 

 

 


6 MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

the point (A). This quarter inch section represents the ultra-violet ray

spectrum on the edge of the x-ray division. From this point (A) to the
extreme right hand end of the pencil line represents the several segments
of; first, the x-rays; then the gamma rays; and finally, the cosmic rays.
In the spectra of gamma and Gosiiic rays the frequency is so tremendous
that a huge fine of figures would be necessary to represent the rate.
‘The wave length at these frequencies is of the order of one ten thou-
sandth of one ten millionth of a millimeter or less.

Observations indicate that the earth’s atmosphere is permeated with
high frequency radiation of tremendous penetrating power. Although
this force is more intense at great heights than at the earth's surface, it
is just as intense at night as during the day. At sea level this radiation
breaks up about 1.4 atoms in every cubic centimeter of air per second, so
it cannot be denied that millions of atoms are broken up in every human
body every second. This is the source of distinct biological and in turn,
psychological, changes in people. Far more penetrating than any other
type of vibration it has been found that the most penetrating portion of
these rays will passthrough sixten fet of lead,

t is only very recently that an analysis of the biological and psycho-
logical effects of these rays has been attempted by enact science, How.
ever, the effect of this energy has been observed by man for centuries.

Simple physics illustrates with a prism how a small segment of sun-
light can be separated into the seven primary colors. On the angle of
refraction of the sun-rays through the prism depends the particular
color in the spectrum. Experiments indicate that a similar type of
refraction process occurs through the planets in their relation to the Sun
and Earth. Radiation on the surface of the Earth is composed of: first,
the rays of the Sun which are refracted by the Earth's magnetism and
atmosphere; second, the refracted rays of the Sun, each changed in a
particular manner through the angle in which they are reflected from
the planets; and, the radiation of each planet. This condition indicates
that the frequency of solar radiation is much broader than just the light
and heat spectra, covering the entire electro-magnetic spectrum from
Tadio waves to cosmic rays.

__ We shall now proceed to examine the effects of this radiation in the
light of economics and mass psychology.

  

 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER THREE

THE SUN SPOT CYCLE

‘The Sun, as the center of the Earth's little niche in the Universe, is
credited with being the source of all of our energy. The Sun is a star,
although it is not the largest, or the brightest, or the hottest star, in the
Universe. But it is the ruler of the solar system of which the Earth is
‘one unit; and controls the motion of the Earth and all the other planets.

‘On the surface of the Sun, or its photosphere, often are seen dark
spots, some of which are many times larger than the Earth. The oc-
currence of these spots was noted by the Chinese long before Galileo
used his telescope in 1610. Hale found that at center a Sun-spot has
the properties of a huge bar magnet. Researches by Schwabe and then
Wolf, which were followed by very systematic observations, show there
is an increase and then a decrease in Sun-epot totality with 2 “regular _—
ixcegulaity’ of about 112 years ‘The interval varies in a range of about
four years. The TOve maximum to minimum averages about
65 years, and the rise from minimum to maximum about 4.6 years.

extensive researches involving the business cycle, as indicated
in the charted tabulation of the statistics of business activity over a
long term of years, there is a distinct relation between the periods of
prosperity and depression and the Sun-spot cycle. The work financed
by the Harvard committee on research in social sciences has resulted in
tracing this correlation from the 17th century South Sea Bubble down
to the present year. The last Sun-spot cycle began with a minimum of
spots in 1923, a maximum in 1928-1929, and another minimum in
1933-1934, Another maximum point is expected late in 1938. The
general averages of Sun-spots for the past 100 years are tabulated on
the next page. Current technical and scientific data is obtainable
through Science Service, Washington, D. C.

‘A phenomena of Sun-spots is that the measure of solar radiation in
the heat spectrum of vibration shows an increase in the Sun's heat with
fan increase in the Sun-spot totality. Solar radiation at heat and light
frequencies averages close to two horsepower per square meter on the
Earth’s surface. The solar energy constant is usually taken as 1.94
calories. But when Sun-spots are at a minimum this value changes to
about 1.92, and when Sun-spots are near a maximum the value averages
1.96. My conclusion is that this variation in the energy constant affects
the mass of humanity biologically and therefore psychologically, in the
manner reflected by the rise and fall of the statistics of business activity,
or economic energy.

Considerable work has been done in the field of correlating rainfall
and the Sun-spot cycle as a clue to factors in long range weather fore-
casting. The effects of the cycle have been strikingly shown to coincide
with tree ring phenomena, It has also been proven there is a coincidence
between the amount of ultra-violet radiation and Sun-spots. Even the

 

 

  

  

 


8 MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

‘TABLE OF SUN-SPOT AVERAGES

 

 

 

 

 

  

Average Year Average Year
13831871 UL2 1905
10321872 1017 1906
858 ©1873 663 1907
632 1874 447 1908
368 1875 1T1 1909
M2 — 1876 31910
107 1877 23 19
1501878 3A 1912
401 1879 60 1913
15 1880 323° 191d
985 1881 5431915
12431882 597 1916
959. 1883 637 1917
665° 1884 1918

1885, 1919
1886 1920
1887 1921
1888 1922
1889 1923
1890 1924
1991 1925,
1892 1926
1993 1927
1993 1927
1894 1928
1895, 1929
1896 1930
1897 1931
1998 1932
1899 1933,
1900 1934
1901

902

1903

1901

   

 

marked variation in the pelts of fur-bearing animals, checked over a
ong term of years, coincides with the Sun-spot cycle; another biological
effect of Sun-spot phenomena.

Although the business cycle and the Sun-spot cycle coincide very
closely, there have been several lags or discrepancies which science has
been unable to satisfy itself on. ‘The factor of planetary refraction seems
to have been ignored. Yet if we take cognizance of the planetary revolu-
tions in our solar system and check the varying positions in relation to
each other, to the Sun and the Earth, the discrepancies are plain, and
explainable by planetary angles and positions.

THE SUN SPOT CYCLE 9

Apparently then, we cannot use the Sun-spot phenomena alone in
forecasting economic probabilities, but include observations of planetary
cycles and planetary interaction also. We shall approach this field in the
next chapter.


CHAPTER FOUR
THE PLANETARY CYCLES

Since the ages of antiquity philosophers have viewed the skies. They
charted the heavens in relation to.a belt or huge circle whose middle
line is the ecliptic or Sun’s path. The signs of the zodiac are the animal
and human forms which seem to be reproduced in the constellations
within this belt. During the 4th century the intellectual zodiac was
computed. It employs the names of the constellations reckoned from the
vernal equinox, each thirty degrees being one sign, irrespective oP the
relative positions of the corresponding constellations. In these observa-
tions we use this intellectual zodiac to observe planetary positions and
interaction.

The constellation: rough the phenor a of the precession of the
equinoxes, gradually slip be ‘the iS at the Fate of
Serstettatons o&tt ies a period of 25; years, Aithe nresent time the
ee pero or wcrictoar S avice the ea Pitoe

next several years, will Gnter the sign Aquarius. Pisces is indica-
tive of water, religious aspiration, confinement and restraint. The past
2000 years of history marked exploration by water, the development of
chemistry, medicine, steam and water power; a new religion gripped the
hearts of men that aspired to make man in the image of his god. In-
tolerance and discipline—a form of restraint—in political, economic and
religious thinking was the basis of developing the greatest period of
human initiative in known history.

‘Aquarius is an air sign that typifies aspirations of unity and the
establishment of the bond of mutual interests. Its effects are a lack of
continuity and stability, but tenacity and decided dependence. The
symbol is brotherhood, being mentally dominant in the idea of social
interdependence with a dislike of all caste systems in human relation-
ships. Where Pisces is water Aquarius is air and ether; and it follows
that the approaching cycle of the Aquarian Age will stress affairs of the
air and ether, such as aeronautics; and those things pertaining to light,
heat and electronics. At the same time the entire political and social
aspects of society will change.

‘The movements of the planets eround the Sun are traced through
the zodiac, and computations of their daily positions are published in
table form called ephemerides. The time of a complete revolution of a
planet around the Sun is termed a planetary year. The earth year is the
standard of measurement. The approximate periods of planetary revolu-
tions are:

Earth—365 days 7 hrs. Jupiter—11 yrs 314 days

‘Mercury—88 days Saturn—29 yrs 167 days

‘Venus—224 days Uranus—84 years

‘Mars—t year 322 days Neptune—164 yrs 167 days
‘Moon—28 days around the Earth

 

 

 

   

 

THE PLANETARY CYCLES uw

Ancient astrology was principally confined to the purposes of divina-
tion, or, foretelling specific events by means of a map of the heavens
drawn at the moment of broaching the question. In modern times the
scientific researcher entirely ignores the practice of interpreting events
from these horary figures. Ancient fatalism has become tinctured with
free-will, and the modern study of planetary interaction and cosmic
vibration is a science that starts where ancient astrology left off.

‘This new science is thoroughly cognizant with all of the advances and
discoveries of modern science. Its development is based on these dis-
coveries. But it fully recognizes the line of demarcation between the
fatalism of the Ancients and the doctrine of free-will and ego-centric
perspective,—persisted in by current schools of psychology. It is the
undiscovered key to psychology, for it shows that man, individually and
en masse, is impelled along paths thet are definitely related to planetary
and other phases of solar radiation,

In checking economic statistics of the business cycle with the periads.
when the major slow moving planets, Saturn, Uranus aad Jupiter. are
ninety-or-ane hundred fees apart in the Zodiac, they” are
found to coincide with economic depression. But when the same planets
are sixty or one hundred and twenty degrees apart (in the zodiac) they
coincide with periods of prosperity. This phenomena is discussed in
detail in a companion brochure

‘The earth signs of the zodiac, Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn, have
always been closely coupled to American political and financial life.
‘The passage of planets through these signs in their revolutions tie in
with major events in a startling manner. For the first time in United
States history Jupiter and Saturn began to meet in conjunctior earth
signs just after 1840. Regularly every twenty years since a conjunction
of these two planets has occurred in these earth signs, timing periods of
political upheaval and new agitation, and interestj—in currency, na-
tional credit and financial matters.

Every President, since the inception of these conjunctions in earth
signs, who was elected in these periods, died in office. In 1840 Harrison
was elected and died in office. In 1860 Lincoln was elected. He died in
office. Garfield was elected in 1880 and he died in office. In 1900 it

0 it was Harding. In 1940 it was Roosevelt;
despite increasing disabilities he persisted to re-election in 1944. And
in 1960 nce continued with Kennedy." 1834

Wild-cat bank notes, following the panic ol 17-1838, became the
“red-dog” variety until agitation for inflation placed all the banks of
Michigan in receivership in 1842, Tn 1861 federal credit was such that [88°

77

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

non-interest bearing notes were ordered, starting the greenback diffi-
culties, After the veto of the inflationary Bland-Allison Act in 1878 a 15
Silver standard was agitated in the depression of 1882 to 1885. Credit
Problems were so great in 1902-03 panic occurred. After 1920 cheap
money and credit was agitated and the Agricultural Act of 1923 re-
sulted.

© This sontence in this 1978 edition brings the eycle to date.

 


CHAPTER FIVE

THE URANUS CYCLE

eres
ee ee eee ate se eee ore
en a Ie ps eur oe Sun, The movements of
ee a aa eecral tener te Poy aceey
ee ea ae cee eceel wih te oan
of i rene Bt fat a tmcncas coos hier.

i ae ee a rumen caer dot
ea a hi Gcoered ant 1781 by Wa
Fee er and a eglogeally a
Sessa Siesta 3

‘The revolution of Uranus i £4 years, or about seveh® feats in each
sn et er cig es aie ony oe
‘Sisitive points of the zodiac, its effects are sudden and radical changes,
Se eee eee aetna clatloecesi tyes
underlying progressiveness. Its general effects generate humanitarian
ae eee a et an tia aed
an ati reas get enon nd ocenti actin,
Eee a i onan fa tevclom of 88 yore
Se a catamaran

eae ee aa an too Gaetan ae
oe i ey, Ss “adi recy heey ene

Se ee aad ati eae pea
aa ee sc ot bce ach ever bean
eto eecia ae crannces aa ore tte
coneh Many notable Su cece pees the sarch of
See ee en enn ate utine of Hater?
eee eae eect ria amare ao et
Bee te tech ete Went oven toa sey fai oy cr
Screener ic wes ec ce omer oo
each era separated but inter-related with the next.

ee a ae eases act an ot ne
Fe ee ee ee ase cat ied wth
ae tee cess ewe
Here Elan inst hn pores ae ing feos = major
salad ras uakey ee sore ead parece
considered of little value is a debatable affair. At any te ea 2 spite
Se ea eeeie umettine eee anno oe
nomic and social cycles of 84 years each. The ‘manner in which these
nom an soi eyes off ea ae essen nine where ths
Sree ecaeaae

If our historians are correct, Columbus landed on what is now known

   
 

 

 

THE URANUS CYCLE 13

as the West Indies group of islands in 1492. From 1492 to 1520 Spain
gave little attention to the new land except to establish settlements for
exploration and trading purposes in the West Indies. The main land was
practically ignored. Their search was primarily for gold and treasure,
and a new route between Europe and the Far East. Balboa crossed
Panama and reached the Pacific in 1513, while Ponce de Leon landed
in Florida in the same year. In 1520 Magellan found a strait near the
southern end of South America, which settled the question of the po-
sition of the America's in relation to Europe and Asia. But it was in
the 1520's before any settlement or colonization of the mainland was
attempted by white men.

In_1523_and 1524 Florida, the territory which now reaches from
Florida to Labrador, attracted the first serious attention of Spain. Late
in 1523 the first formal grant of conquest and settlement was issued.
‘The first settlement was launched under d’Ayllon, not far from the same
spot on which Jamestown was later founded.

As jomical calculations indicate that the planet_Uranus crossed
the Bth an: legrees Of the zodiacal sign Gemini in the year 1523, —
coineing Tene a Se aa comprises
part of the United States.

In the 84 years between 1523 and 1607, when Uranus again returned —

to the Sth and 9th degrees of Gemin, many changes occurred
North American Continent, but in the Tight of history the period was @
distinct epoch ia itself.

Just after the beginning of the 17th century @ troublesome depression
gripped Europe. Thousands were without employment or even a place
to live. The proposal to colonize America met with great favor. Elisa.
beth was dead. The Stuarts were in the ascendancy and Europe was
launching a period of fateful constitutional chenges Which was sinister
and chaatie

So it was inthe latter part of April, 1607, the first English settlement
was made in. America at. Jamestown, Viegini. Notwithstanding. the
shortcomings of the settlers, their tremendous diffcutties and’ thele im.
Dracticality in adjusting themselves to.a new land, there is no mistaking
that this settlement and year was the begioning of the ‘2nd epoch i
‘American economic history. It also began a new Uranus cycle.

In_1691 Uranus had again traveled through its 84 year orbit, return-_
ing suain fo the 8th and Oth degrees of Gemini” Slice 607 the New
England colonies had developea: Marylane ware province ond oeaniee
tion had entered Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Carolina, ‘But
the 1690's began civil war and revolution embroiled England, laying

‘seeds of political and religious dissension in the American colonies.
Conditions became so intense in the colonies by 1691 that a general
upheaval ensued, which Woodrow Wilson, in his fve volume "History of
the American people,” calls “The Revolution.” This deluge ended the
2nd epoch of American economic life which began with the founding of
Jamestown in 1607. The 1690's saw the fall and burning of Jamestown,
the fall of Plymouth, Massachusetts and Maryland, and the institution

 


4 MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN ECONOMICS

of new political currents and economic ideas, coinciding with the begin-
ning of another new cycle of Uranus.

In 1775, 84 years after 1691, Uranus.again returned to-the- Sth-and.
ch -degrees of Gemini. In the interim the seeds of American inde-
pendence had een sown aid on May 20th, 1775, a Declaration of

Independence was issued from the Mecklenburg, Virginia Convention.
But the new era of independence did not formally begin until Uranus
reached 8 degrees 51 minutes of Gemini at 20 minutes past noon on
July 4th, 1776 in Philadelphia: when the final Declaration of Inde-
pendence was signed. Indubitably coinciding with the new cyele of
Uranus, the fourth epoch in American economic life began.

Late p 1859, 84 years after the Daclaration of Independence, Uranus
‘had again returned to the Gth and 9th degress af Gemini In the Znterst
@ new union of states developed and multiplied, but, Violent dissension
had been gaining ground on several major questions ever since the
1820's, By 1850 close to an armed division of affairs developed, which
‘became an actuality in Civil War in 1861. On December 20th, 1860,
South Carolina seceded from the union. The planet Uranus was in 9
degrees 17 minutes of Gemini on that day.

(On February 4th, 1861 the provisional constitution of the Confederacy
was framed at Montgomery, Alabama. Uranus was retrograding in 8
degrees 6 minutes of Gemini at the moment. The first armed conflict of
the war took place in early April 1861 at Fort Sumter. Uranus was then
in 9 degrees 4 minutes of Gemini.

A reference has already been made to the conjunctions of Jupiter
‘and Saturn beginning to appear in earth signs, after 1840, at approxi-
mately 20 year intervals. The conjunction following the presidential
election of 1860 occurred on October 2ist, 1861 in 18 degrees 22
minutes of Virgo, although between September and November 1861 it
‘was very near a constant conjunction.

At the time of this conjunction period of 1861 the state of federal
credit became serious. Tax receipts from the Southern states were no
longer sources of income, while the expense of the war was more than
the Treasury could stand. In July 1861 only 25 cents of each dollar
spent in government came from taxes. The balance was borrowed.
Following an appeal to the banks for $150 millions in August the
‘Treasury could not pay creditors in coin and the country went on a
paper basis. Between that time and 1863 close to a half billion in
greenbacks was issued while gold went to huge premiums. The problem
became intensely difficult through the sudden death of Lincoln, when
Reconstruction plans and the efforts toward credit stabilization were
unexpectedly transferred to Vice President Johnson, a Democrat in
what had been a Republican Administration. So without any doubt
the crossing of the 8th and 9th degrees of Gemini by Uranus agein co-
incided with the end of one epoch and the beginning of a new fifth
epoch in American economic history; intensified by the appearance of
the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in Virgo.

From 1859-1860 to 1943-1944, when Uranus will again traverse

 

 

 

 

THE URANUS CYCLE 15

  
  

inti fears. Intensifying circum-
jaturn in Gemini between May 9th, 1942
and June 20th, 1944, following a conjunction of Saturn and Uranus in
29 degrees of Taurus on May 3rd, 1942, and a conjunction of Jupiter
and Saturn in Taurus (an earth sign) in the early part of February
1941. It is unqualifiedly the most momentous period so far encountered.
in American history.

 


CHAPTER SIX

SOME CONCLUSIONS

Any recapitulation of the observations in the foregoing material must
first take cognizance of the fact that these cycles are not compelling. If
appointed leadership could and would take stock of these phenomena
any long range observations could be couched in a pre-adjustment to the
reverberations. On the other hand, the very complexities of the head-
long welter of public opinion and political expediency seems to bear
down as an irremovable force or process of evolution. Preventive pre-
scriptions have no place here, however.

Those practiced in the habit of waiting to see debatable economic
effects may conclude that all this data is a unique chain of coincidences
which have no bearing on the future. But let us maintain a distinction
between that which consists of economic effect and that which may be
cause.

“The first conclusion is that the period between the World War and
the late 1950's marks a cyclical transition from the Piscean Age of the —
Jest 2000 years into the Aquarian Age of the-next 2000 years, :next 2000 years. The dead
Center of the transition computes as the decade o 1950.

‘Second, the fifth 84 year cycle in American economic life will end
in 1943 and a new 84 year cycle begin in 1944, a transition heretofore
accompanied by tremendous and chaotic circumstances

Third, a Sun-spot maximum is expected in 1938, and a minimum in
1943 and 1944, which is one contribution to the anticipation that busi-
ness indices will attain a high in 1938 and a low in 1943 and 1944.

Fourth, a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn again occurs in an earth
sign, this time in 1941, following the election of 1940, suggesting the
possibility of a repetition of an unexpected collapse of executive power
by 1945.

Fifth, a phenomena of the Jupiter-Saturn conjunctions in earth signs
is the manner in which they have timed a new interest in problems of
banking, credit and the expansion of credit, When accompanied by
Uranian influences, as occurred following 1860, necessitous inflationary
expedients developed. Between 1940 and 1945 the combined influences
are far more potent than at any time in American history, including the
Civil War period. The conclusion is that the aftermath of the credit
expansion of the late 1930's will form the beginning of money problems
timed for the early 1940's; but, that necessitous and actual inflation
will not be probable before 1941 begins. The mass psychology that dis-
counts inflation is of an entirely different order than the fear ridden
psychology which accompanies actual inflation. There is a vast differ-
ence between actual inflation and credit expansion. The late 1930's
appear to mark credit expansion, while the early 1940’s point to a
necessitous inflationary interval.

‘The general conclusion is that the business indices will reflect a

 

 

 

SOME CONCLUSIONS 7

general upward trend from the lows of 1932 to a high late in 1938, A
Fecession is then expected to begin, with the “normal” downward trend
into 1943 and 1944, violently, but only temporarily, interrupted in the
inflationary period of 1941 and 1942. After 1943 and 1944 the founda-
tion for major readjustments actually start, so that by 1950 and 1951
another, and greater, epoch in American economic life begins; coinciding
with a new 84 year Uranus cycle, plus the 2000 year and long awaited
Aquarian Age.

ADDENDA 1978: World War II fades into history but its deep
effects have become more and more ominous to the traditions of Ameri-
can life. Standards of value, reduced deficit inflation, traditional moral-
ity and confidence in the future have been in erosion. The convenience
and miracle of debt credit under the pressures of war seems to have
gripped the populace to get a share and elect those who promise it.
Inflation is turning from the glow of prosperity to the ogre of deep-
seated inflation, This heritage of the 1940's includes the national shift
from the concept of independence to that of internationalism which was
given birth in the form of the United Nations. After 1950-1951 the
Promised new epoch did begin even though viewed askance now.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Chapters 2 & 3
“Principles of Radio Communication” by Morecroft.
“Below Ten Meters” by James Millen and R. S. Kruse.
“Blectronics” issue of April 1932,
“Life's Place in the Cosmos” by Hiram Percy Maxim. Appleton 1933.
“Astronomy” by John Charles Duncan, PhD. Harpers 1930,
“The Universe Around Us” by James Jeans. MacMillan 1929.
“Earth, Radio and Stars” by Harlan T. Stetson. McGraw-Hill 1934,
‘Astro-Economic Research” by L. J. Jensen. Astrological Bulletina Tssues
198 & 199,

Chapter 4
“Astrological Key Words” by Manly P. Hall. David McKay 1931.
‘New Dictionary of Astrology” by Sepharial, David McKay 1928.

‘Lilly's Astrology” by William Lilly. G. Bell and Sons Ltd London 1919,

 

Chapter 5
“History of the American People” by Woodrow Wilson, Five vols. Harpers
1901 1902. if aa
“Flocida—Old and New” by Dau. Putnam's 1934,
“Romantic and Historic Florida” by A, Hyatt Verill. Dodd, Mead 1935,
Roger Williams” by James E. Ernst. MacMillan 1932.

“A Century of Banking Progress” by Wm. 0. Scroggs, Ph.D. Doubleday
aes, ORES, joubleday,

 


Section II

ASTRO-ECONOMIC

INTERPRETATION

A MUNDANE ASTROLOGY NOTEBOOK
FUNDAMENTALS OF ECONOMIC FORECASTING

Copyright 1938 by L. J, Jensen
‘All Rights Reserved
(NOTE: Chapters 1 to 8 inclusive; material to follow is all new for this edition.)


FOREWORD

‘The scientific world has come far since that day when the French
Academy of Science examined Edison's first phonograph and pronounced
it a clever hoax and product of ventriloquism. But as great as the me-
chanical and electrical advances have been, it is only recently that more
than desultory attention has been paid to astrological premises. The
average individual fears that which he does not understand. The air of
mystery surrounding astrology simply accentuates this intellectual fear.
‘The normal “protective” reaction is then derision, and sometimes, casti-
gation. Until recently this “protective” derision toward astro-science
tenets has persisted with almost fanatical zeal. Now, however—for with
knowledge develops understanding—serious consideration involves the
subject.

‘The enormous findings and progress in radio and electronics, aero-
dynamics, weather cycles, et cetera, during recent years, has aroused a
new interest in the related astrological premises which have been the
common knowledge of researchers since the days of the Chaldeans and
Egyptians. It is part of our rapidly moving epoch that much of this
ancient material be correlated and clarified so that the modern layman
can both approach and understand the field.

‘This manual makes no pretense of being either an encyclopedia, a
complete compendium, or even an introductory dictionary of astrologi-
cal tenets and practice. Such a work would include a great deal of the
philosophical and scientific works of history, plus dozens of volumes of
observation in astrological material. This work is, however, the out-
growth of a need for a ready reference book which would afford the
salient working or everyday basis for interpreting Cosmic forces from
ephemerides. It is the result of innumerable methods of procedure that
were carefully tested in over fifteen years of observation and study.
Several methods not included herein, though quite widely used, must be
rejected for both unscientific and practical test reasons. However, fifteen
years of intensive research is far too short a time in which to formulate
‘even one dogmatic postulate on the invalidity of any method in this
gigantic field of observation. We are barely on the threshold of astrologi-
cal application to economic, political, social and individual maladjust-
ments with natural laws and forces. The material herein is therefore a
foundation for practical procedure.

Although general economics long since applied detailed observational
concentration to mass psychology, nationalities, and group movements;
and then formulated individual reactions through group stimuli, environ-
‘mental contacts, and heredity, to the potentialities and possibilities of
fone person, astrology has blandly given little attention to anything but
the individual. This cart before the horse procedure has obviously re-
tarded any general understanding of the subject, and, at the same time,


22 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

prevented an intensive and organized research into its principles. When
a business organization prepares to open a new territory they carefully
survey the new field for not only the possible demand for their goods,
but whether large numbers of the population are sufficiently prosperous
to buy. If the territory is generally prosperous then the average in-
habitant is prosperous.

‘The detailed attention to natal astrology, or the analysis of the indi-
vidual, has tended researchers to overlook the extreme importance in a
geographical location and its astrological portents. It is banal to suggest
a field for electrical refrigerators north of the Arctic Circle, yet it is
almost as trivial to insist that the individual is not governed by the group
and location where he lives. Therefore Mundane or National Astro-
‘Analysis is the first and most important part of astrological interpreta-
tion. Without it distinct progress in natal astrology would continue to
remain scientifically fragmentary.

In spite of the importance of the mundane field there are only a hand-
ful of three or four published works on the subject, although the ma-
terials on personal genitures run into hundreds of volumes. This is
probably a normal sequence to every individuals’ love of self being first
in his or her thinking. Each person is interested in his tendencies, his
destiny, his opportunities, and his chances for finding mental co-ordina-
tion and happiness. Yet in these days when the world is attempting to
cast off the remnants of a Stone Age individualism in preparation for
the New Age of co-operation, it is realized that the Not-Self—the cir-
cumstances around us—is of greater importance than the Self—our own
personal ego. So it is that the mundane field of astrology is both the
key to national events and individual attainment.

"This brief brochure attempts to present thoroughly tested and practi-
cal methods of procedure correlated into as simplified formulae as the
present state of the art permits. No new theories or startling departures
from recognized fundamentals are suggested, even though many of the
currently popular theories have been tested and so far found wanting
in results. The layman whose astrological experience has been confined
to a few Sun-Sign readings and a perusal of a few magazines is invited
to carefuly study the recent brochure, “Major Trends in American Eco-
nomics,” in order to grasp the fundamentals involved in interpretive
work.

Tam gratefully indebted to a vast number of authors and corre-
spondents throughout the world in aligning the procedure herein. The
interchange and sifting of the multitude of ideas and premises received
through these contacts has been of inestimable value. Probably the
only original feature of the entire work lies in the correlation of the
methods of procedure. Credit could well be given to a list of researchers
‘and authors too numerous to append. However, I am particularly grate-
ful to Mr. George J. McCormack, not only as a fellow researcher in the
‘American Academy of Astrologians, and the voluminous mass of data
we have discussed in the last several years, but for a part of the radix
figure material which forms such a vital part of the data included herein.

 

 

  

 

FOREWORD 23,

It is mildly probable that this material may come to the attention of
others than researchers quite conversant with astrological procedure,
practice and fundamentals. To these, it should be reminded, that astro-
logical interpretation is an art rather than an exact science. It deals
with the entire pattern of human life, from world economics and religion
to every detail of individual life. Expect far more from the subject than
has yet been attained by the combined efforts of governments, politics,
industry and finance in heavily subsidized natural phenomena research,
but don’t expect the impossible. Medical science is still fifty per cent
guess work, the administration of governments continues to be princi
pally dependent on political emotion, while orthodox economics has
made slight progress in coping with the maladjustments of human life
Astro-science has a far better record to offer, in spite of the situation
that research into its scientific postulates is yet in its infancy, but allow
for some interpretive error.

 

KANSAS Crty, NoveMBER 1935 L. J. Jensen


CHAPTER ONE

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS

‘Tradition teaches that the signs of the zodiac, the symbols of planets
and the earthly influences of both, were @ heavenly revelation to man
from the dark ages of the past. Since the time of the Chaldeans the
fundamental traditions of astrological practice have persisted unchanged.
However, since the tremendous strides in astronomy, electrical appli-
cations, and aeronautics, in the last half a century, a new depth of
understanding has become applied to the ancient premises of stellar
science. Accordingly, a new foundation for mundane astrology interpre-
tation is developing,

‘Mundane astrology is the study of cosmic forces in relation to the
activity, events and circumstances of countries, cities and groups of
people. It is astrological economics; or, astro-economics, for purposes

  

of brevity,

The_major_problem in astro-economic .en_the ion_of
zodiacal and planetary-Tilerships so as to co-ordinate the positions of
the-astrat-bowties-withr a specifc fe and longitude oni the earth's

‘surface. “A-Humber of earnest researchers have developed several meth-
‘ods oF co-ordination, but a complete simplified synthesis has never been
offered. The work of Johndro in “The Earth in the Heavens,” Counsil
in the “Cyclic Locality Dial” and “X Marks My Place,” and Sepharial in
the “Theory of Geodectic Equivalents” bear both the necessity for care-
ful examination and profound respect. The thesis developed does much
to clarify the entire problem.

However, the problem does not end with sign rulerships. It includes a
difficulty with the two-sign rulerships of Mercury, Venus and Mars that
are one of the problems handed down from antiquity. These two ele-
ments of the rulership problem have probably been the greatest deter-
rents to astro-economic interpretation progress.

‘The people of the present civilization appear to be members of a Fifth
Race that have inhabited the earth. ‘The divisions of the Zodiac as
viewed by this Race locates the sign Leo in the fifth segment of the
Zodiac. Leo, the fifth sign, is ruled by the Sun. And the Sun is the
center of the planetary system of which the earth is a part. The other
planets are attributed to govern, or rule, the signs following the sign
Leo in the order of their distance from the Sun, viz, Mercury rules Virgo,
Venus Libra, Mars Scorpio, Jupiter Sagittarius, Saturn Capricorn,
Uranus Aquarius, and Neptune Pisces.

‘Until recently the rulerships ended there, although the Moon has
always been attributed to Cancer in modern times, while Aries suggested
Mars, Venus Taurus, and Gemini Mercury. However, in my own prac-
tice there have been repeated circumstances which indicated that more
than Mars, Venus, Mercury, and the Moon involved Aries, Taurus,
Gemini and Cancer.

In 1930 the planet called Pluto was located. Its revol

 

 

 

around the


26 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Sun is computed as about 330 years. Therefore, if the continuity of
rulerships applies, Pluto logically takes its place as the planetary ruler of
the sign Aries. Then during the course of time three more planets, to
assume rulerships of Taurus, Gemini and Cancer, will be located. As
Pluto has two times the revolution of Neptune and Neptune is about
twice the time in revolution as Uranus the next planetary discovery will
probably have a revolution period of about 660 years, and so on. When
the planet ruling Cancer is discovered the rulership of the Moon will then
revert to Pars Fortuna.

In assigning sign rulerships care is necessary in attributing too much
certainty that Mars completely rules Aries, or Venus Taurus, Mercury
Gemini and the Moon Cancer. They do partially rule these divisions,
but apparently only as lower (more physical) octaves of the principal
ruling planets which have not yet been astronomically located. In in-
terpretation we shall continue to attribute Mars to Aries though it is
subordinate to Pluto as the full ruler. In other words Mars is full ruler
over Scorpio but simply a partial and lower octave ruler of Aries, Venus
rules Libra but is only a partial or lower octave ruler of Taurus, and so
on with Mercury and Gemini and the Moon and Cancer. The resulting
balance is graphically illustrated in a diagram in the note section.

But the problem of aligning zodiacal positions with latitude and
longitude on the earth is more difficult to most observers. Literally a
multitude of attempts have been published on the subject, some involv-
ing a heliocentric bases, others a precessional geocentric, and others
simply philosophical conjecture. All of them have a basis in fact, de-
pending on a particular approach, yet none of them have worked con-
sistently for me. After a great deal of effort, however, the problem
appears solved as so far repeated tests have brought consistently sat
factory results. Lengthy discussion has no place here, but each point is
amply explained by Alan Leo in his “Casting the Horoscope” although
he seems to miss the application,

In the 1917 Yearbook of the American Academy of Astrologians
Florence Adele Barnett applied the zodiacal signs to longitude along the
Equator and placed 0° of Taurus at the longitude of the Pyramid of
Gizeh. The signs of the zodiac were measured EAST in their regular
order. The Pyramid is located at 31° 0744’ East Longitude. Voluminous
researches in connection with Pyramid measurements clearly prove the
scientific basis for this co-ordination. Some of these items are available
in “A Miracle in Stone” by Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. although it presents
only a small part of the material. The signs are located as follows:

O° Aries- 1°07 ¥4’ EAST Long.0° Libra - 178° 52 ¥4’WEST

 

O° Taurus 31°07 %4’ “ = * O° Scorpio 14875244’
O°Gemini 61°07 ¥%4' “ “O° Sagittarius 118° 52 ¥4’
O° Cancer 91°07%2' “ “O° Capricorn 88°52 44’
O°Leo 121°07%4' “ = * «O° Aquarius 58°52 44’ “*
O° Virgo 151°07%4' “ “O° Pisces 28°52"

From ancient times it has been recognized that the Zodiac is a fixed

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS 27

belt formed by the earth's orbit around the Sun. It has none of the ir-
regularity of the constellations and it is the actual zodiac of geocentric
computations. It has no relation to the Zodiac of the Constellations;
when we are thinking in terms of the Universe in relation to the preces-
sion of the equinoxes which at some, at present, astronomically unknown
period left 0° of Aries and now lies somewhere between 28° of Aries and
8° to 10° of Pisces. The actual and geocentric zodiac is as fixed today as
it was several thousands of years ago. The modern geocentric ephemeris
does not revise the heliocentric positions to align with the mythical 0°
Aries of the Zodiac of the Constellations; it simply gives the positions of
the planets geocentrically instead of heliocentrically. The actual zodiac
used in interpretation is right in step with equinoxtial precession and al
ways has been. Therefore each country and city has the same rulership
as it always has had; but, when we go outside of our solar system to com-
pute fixed star effects we step into the Zodiac of the Constellations which
is a matter of precession. Therefore we can go further in aligning ruler-
ships mundanly.

During a period of ten years I traveled almost continuously, crossing
and recrossing forty-six states of the United States and four Canadian
provinces. In that time repeated observation was made of the probable
ruling degrees of cities and towns. Every type of constellation co-
ordinate was used but the varying success could only be attributed to
Ascendants and not the mid-heaven points. Yet the Pyramid co-ordina-
tion worked consistently and faithfully. Another suggestion of Miss Bar-
nett’s was, that in accordance with the mystical revelation number 144,
or 12 times 12, each of the twelve signs be divided into twelve sub-
divisions of 244°, and that as Taurus is aligned with the Pyramid loca-
tion the first 244° sub-division of each sign be allotted to Taurus instead
of Aries. But this did not work in practice and its only scientific basis lay
in a rather distant occult point.

In some of the Hindu material forwarded me by H. M. Poojara in
Kathiawar, India, were notes on some of the esoteric phases of the
Dwadasams&s oF 2%4° divisions of the Hindu zodiac. (See the frontis-
piece of Alan Leo's “Esoteric Astrology” for this chart). According to
this method of sutratvision;-and there are Hiany occult and scientific
reasons involved, the first Dwadasamsas of each sign is held by the same
sign; the first sub-division of Aries is Aries, but the first subdivision of
Taurus is not Aries but is Taurus. Two charts, one showing the major
zodiacal divisions of the world and the other the major and sub-divisions
for the United States, are on the pages following. Suffice it to say that
this co-ordination works; always.

‘To compute the major division mid-heaven degree for any location
add 1° 744’ to WEST Longitude and divide the total by 30° (one sign).
The amount over, in degrees, subtract from 30°. The first gives the
number of signs (counting BACKWARDS from the usual order) and
the second is the degree of rulership on the M. C. of the location. in the
‘Table of Houses locate this M. C. degree in the proper latitude column
‘and then enter cuspal positions on the chart. To illustrate:

 

 

 

 

 


26 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Sun is computed as about 330 years. Therefore, if the continuity of
rulerships applies, Pluto logically takes its place as the planetary ruler of
the sign Aries. Then during the course of time three more planets, to
assume rulerships of Taurus, Gemini and Cancer, will be located. As
Pluto has two times the revolution of Neptune and Neptune is about
twice the time in revolution as Uranus the next planetary discovery will
probably have a revolution period of about 660 years, and so on. When
the planet ruling Cancer is discovered the rulership of the Moon will then
revert to Pars Fortuna. ;

In assigning sign rulerships care is necessary in attributing too much
certainty that Mars completely rules Aries, or Venus Taurus, Mercury
Gemini and the Moon Cancer. They do partially rule these divisions,
but apparently only as lower (more physical) octaves of the principal
ruling planets which have not yet been astronomically located. In in.
terpretation we shall continue to attribute Mars to Aries though it is
subordinate to Pluto as the full ruler. Tn other words Mars is full ruler
over Scorpio but simply a partial and lower octave ruler of Aries, Venus
rules Libra but is only a partial or lower octave ruler of Taurus, and so
on with Mercury and Gemini and the Moon and Cancer. The resulting
balance is graphically illustrated in a diagram in the note section.

But the problem of aligning zodiacal positions with latitude and
longitude on the earth is more difficult to most observers. Literally a
multitude of attempts have been published on the subject, some involv-
ing a heliocentric bases, others a precessional geocentric, and others
simply philosophical conjecture. All of them have a besis in fact, de-
pending on a particular approach, yet none of them have worked con-
sistently for me. After a great deal of effort, however, the problem
appears solved as so far repeated tests have brought consistently satis-
factory results. Lengthy discussion has no place here, but each point is
amply explained by Alan Leo in his “Casting the Horoscope” although
he seems to miss the application,

In the 1917 Yearbook of the American Academy of Astrologians
Florence Adele Barnett applied the zodiacal signs to longitude along the
Equator and placed 0° of Taurus at the longitude of the Pyramid of
Gizeh. The signs of the zodiac were measured EAST in their regular
order. The Pyramid is located at 31° 0744’ East Longitude. Voluminous
researches in connection with Pyramid measurements clearly prove the
scientific basis for this co-ordination. Some of these items are available
in “A Miracle in Stone” by Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. although it presents
‘only a small part of the material. The signs are located as follows:

O° Aries- 1°07 14"EASTLong.0° Libra - 178° 52 44’ WEST

O° Taurus 31°07%4" “ —“ O°Scorpio 14875242" *

 

0° Gemini 61°07 4’ “ “(O° Sagittarius 118°52 44’
0° Cancer 9190744’ “ “O° Capricorn 88°52 4’
O° Leo 1219074’ “ = * OP Aquarius 58°52 %4’
O° Virgo 151°07 4’ “ = * O° Pisces 285244"

From ancient times it has been recognized that the Zodiac is a fixed

MUNDANE RULERSHIPS 27

belt formed by the earth's orbit around the Sun. It has none of the ir-
regularity of the constellations and it is the actual zodiac of geocentric
computations. It has no relation to the Zodiac of the Constellations;
when we are thinking in terms of the Universe in relation to the preces-
sion of the equinoxes which at some, at present, astronomically unknown
period left 0° of Aries and now lies somewhere between 28° of Aries and
8° to 10° of Pisces. The actual and geocentric zodiac is as fixed today as
it was several thousands of years ago. The modern geocentric ephemeris
does not revise the heliocentric positions to align with the mythical 0°
Aries of the Zodiac of the Constellations; it simply gives the positions of
the planets geocentrically instead of heliocentrically. The actual zodiac
used in interpretation is right in step with equinoxtial precession and al-
ways has been, Therefore each country and city has the same rulership
as it always has had; but, when we go outside of our solar system to com-
pute fixed star effects we step into the Zodiac of the Constellations which
is a matter of precession. Therefore we can go further in aligning ruler-
ships mundanly.

During a period of ten years I traveled almost continuously, crossing
and recrossing forty-six states of the United States and four Canadian
provinces. In that time repeated observation was made of the probable
ruling degrees of cities and towns. Every type of constellation co-
ordinate was used but the varying success could only be attributed to
Ascendants and not the mid-heaven points. Yet the Pyramid co-ordina-
tion worked consistently and faithfully. Another suggestion of Miss Bar-
net's was, that in accordance with the mystical revelation number 144,
or 12 times 12, each of the twelve signs be divided into twelve sub-
divisions of 244°, and that as Taurus is aligned with the Pyramid loca-
tion the first 215° sub-division of each sign be allotted to Taurus instead
of Aries, But this did not work in practice and its only scientific basis lay
in a rather distant occult point.
vat some of the Hindu material forwarded me by H. M. Poojara in

‘athiawar, India, were notes on some of the esoteric phases of the
Dwadasams&s_oF 2¥4° divisions of the Hindu zodiac. (See the frontis-
piece of Alan Leo's “Esoteric Astrology” for this chart). According to
this method of Sub-aivision-and there are many occult and scientific
reasons involved, the first Dwadasamsas of each sign is held by the same
sign; the first sub-division of Aries is Aries, but the first subdivision of
Taurus is not Aries but is Taurus. Two charts, one showing the major
zodiacal divisions of the world and the other the major and sub-divisions
for the United States, are on the pages following. Suffice it to say that
this co-ordination works; always.

To compute the major division mid-heaven degree for any location
add 1° 744’ to WEST Longitude and divide the total by 30° (one sign).
‘The amount over, in degrees, subtract from 30°. The first gives the
number of signs (counting BACKWARDS from the usual order) and
the second is the degree of rulership on the M. C. of the lovation. In the
Table of Houses locate this M. C. degree in the proper latitude column
and then enter cuspal positions on the chart. To illustrate:

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION
Konsas City, Mo. — West Longitude 94° 30° 6
ADD. 174 =
852784" ra
Dividing by 30°gives 3 signs 5° 37%
Subtracting the result from 30° gives 24° 3244’ &
So, the zodiacal position of the M. C. is Sagittarius 24° 3244’ D
The Latitude is 39° North. In the Table of Houses 24° Sagittarius on
the M. C. is 19° 4’ Pisces on the Ascendant. fet
‘To compute the sub-division rulership; each sub-division is 244° so -
24° is in the 10th Dwadasamsas, which, under Sagittarius is Virgo. The f
beginning of this 10th Dwadasamsas is 714° from 0° Capricorn at 88° rst
5244" West Longitude at 96° 2214’ West. Kansas City is 24° 3214’ g
Sagittarius (94° 30/ West); a difference of 11244’. As one thirtieth of
2¥4° is 5’ then 11244’ computes to 22 degrees of Virgo which is the sub-
division MC bringing an ascendant of 6° 06’ of Sagittarius at 39 North BI
Latitude. By using your slide rule the computations are greatly simpli- a
fied. S
A few of the major division degrees are as follows: iS Fy
Boston 18° Capricorn onM.C. 4° Taurus on Asc. Sie
New York 15°Capricorn “ “28° Aries“ y
Washington 12°Capricom “ “ 22° Aries“ « le
Chicago 2° Capricorn “ << 4° Aries =< 2
Los Angeles 1°Sagittarius “© 15° Aquarius * © SIN
S It
|)
INI
Re
IS [al
a
Ss
é

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


CAPRICORN

=

+

 

 

 

 

SAGITTARIUS
1] [ee [BT [Sl 2] ml Sms | | Ee

SCORPIO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Owstine Map

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER.ZWO
PROGRESSIONS AND TRANSITS

One of the most difficult problems in astrological practice is the
method to use in projecting or “progressing” a radix or birth chart in
order to analyze the probabilities of the future. The controversies on this
point are very heated, and tend to diffuse most of the fundamentals in-
volved. The many facets of the question have no place in a notebook
manual of this sort, but I have found that every method in general use
has some basis of merit. On the other hand, a small degree of merit is
unsatisfactory excuse for using methods which do not stand up con-
sistently. In mundane interpretation results are of paramount impor-
tance,

‘The popular methods of “primary” and “secondary” directions have
never held up for me. In other words, they work beautifully one time
and fail utterly at another. Mentally leaping the gap by presuming
transit “touch-offs” or changes in geographical location never explained
the problem. The obvious answer should be that planetary positions on
the tenth or twentieth days after the beginning or birth cannot have any
effect on the corresponding years of life. It is physically impossible to
raise a blister in the twentieth year because of a burn received on the
twentieth day. Yet, like the progressive motion of the precession of the
equinoxes, and the entire Solar system, there is an analogy between a day
and a year in interpretive science. It is the occult, the fatalistic, and also
probably the expression of the microcosmic within the macrocosmic. The
diurnal cycle is related to the annual cycle in the same manner as the
spiritual is related to the physical. One day does relate to one year. But,
and this seems to be the point, the diurnal and annual (apparent) revo-
lutions of the Sun are the units of measure; not the zodiacal measures of
Mercury, or Mars, or Venus, et cetera. The zodiacal position of Mercury
twenty days after birth is effective twenty days after birth but never
affects the twentieth year of life. Yet the diurnal, or Sun, measure for the
twentieth day of life affects the twentieth year as spiritual, or fatalistic,
indicator of the destiny.

‘The Sun in its diurnal revolution then becomes the basis of progres-
sion in locating the destiny of the radix subject. It is the key which re-
veals why everyone, in a true sense, is neither “captain of his soul or
master of his fate.” It reveals the Radix subject’s relation to inscrutable
and imponderable spiritual law.

Sepharial in “The Science of Foreknowledge,” Alec Stuart in “The Se-
ret of the Meridian” and particularly Vivian E. Robson in “The Radix
System” apply this premise in a most practical and workable manner.
When the diurnal measure of the Sun (about 59 8”) is applied in each
rogressed year to every planet in the radix the unit of the solar measure-
‘ment fulfills the entire analogy of the basic premise involved. The point
is that it works out most satisfactorily in practice, without the gaps of the
“primary” and “secondary” methods.

 


32 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

ADDENDA 1977: Since the foregoing, written in 1936, the radix
system concept has been widely researched in Europe and brilliantly
presented in several books by REINHOLD EBERTIN of Aalen, West
Germany Significant are “Combination of Stellar Influences,” “Tables
of Events,” “Transits,” etc.

For precise work, and where the ephemeris of the radix year is avail-
able, the procedure is to take the position of the Sun at the day of the
Radix in the ephemeris. Count forward as many days as years are to be
progressed and compute exactly how many degrees, minutes and seconds
the Sun moved. Add this amount to the longitude of every planet in the
Radix and also to all cusp positions. “Secondary” directions occur when
the Moon's total travel is added to the position of the Moon in the Radix.

When the ephemeris of the year of the Radix is not available use the
average daily rate of the Sun’s travel—59" 8” for each year; and the
average daily travel of the Moon—13° 10’ 35”, for the “secondary” di-
rections. The condensed table of measure will be found in the note sec-
tion. This method is valuable in estimating the “fate” or long term out-
look from corporation, national and other mundane figures. The portents
do not involve specific happenings however. Always keep in mind that
they simply time the indications or materialization of the indications of
the Radix.

For practical and detailed interpretation and forecasts of specific
tendencies and events an application of the annual revolution of the Sun
seems consistently accurate. The basis is the annual return of the Sun to
the same position it occupies in the Radix. A chart set for this moment
indicates the events of the year to follow, and diurnal figures based on
this Solar Return times those events and indicates by daily and actual
planetary positions in operation the motivation and specific timing of all
events.

‘The method is to erect a chart for the moment of the Sun’s return to
the position it occupied in the Radix. Then the Sidereal Time of this
chart is a base for each diurnal chart of the year. For practical purposes
one minute (1’) of Sidereal Time is added to the Radix Sidereal Time
for each day after the day of the Solar Return, and the ephemeris pot
tions of the planets are the diurnal day in question are entered in their
proper places. For example:

Compute the Sun's exact position in the Radix. Then erect a figure for
the nearest previous Solar Return to that place. It will be necessary to
compute the time of the Return to minutes and seconds in Greenwich
Mean Time. Then transpose this G. M. T. to True Local Time by sub-
tracting four minutes for each degree of WEST Longitude, or ADDING
four minutes for each degree of EAST Longitude. Then calculate the
Sidereal Time of the Solar Return at the geographical location in ques-
tion, which may not be the Radix location. This Sidereal Time is the
base for the diurnal figures of the year, by simply adding one minute for
each day to the Solar Return S. T. For illustration, say the Sidereal
‘Time of the Solar Return figure is 12-24-31, September Ist. We want
the diurnal for November Ist. To the Sidereal Time of the September

 

 

 

PROGRESSIONS AND TRANSITS 33

Ist chart add one minute (1") for each day, (30 days from September
Ist to October Ist; 31 days from October 1st to November Ist) or 61”

12 24 31S. T. Solar Retum (Sept. Ist)
61___ Increase
13-95-31 S. 7. of Diummal (Nov, 1st)

Enter the house cusps according to the proper latitude and the planets
positions from the ephemeris for November Ist. The Radix and pro-
gressed Radix positions are added in their proper sign positions.

‘The theory involving this method is that although the sidereal year
and the tropical year only the amount of the procession of the —

‘equinox (about 50.2), the sidereal year is mean solar days
‘thle these wrrl&seat Time difference of about qx hour, oF one quarter
day, between two Solar Returns. Our calendar handles this by comput-

ing one year as 365 days and every fourth year adding a day. To illus-
‘trate: Use the Sun’s return at 0° Aries in a geocentric ephemeris.

Solar Return
March 21st, 1929
March 2st, 1930
March 21st, 1931
March 20th, 1932
March 21st, 1933
March 21st, 1934
March 21st, 1935 7
March 20th, 1936 6:58 P.M. (Leap Year)

‘Twenty four hours of mean solar time are equal to 24 hours, 3 min-
utes, and 86.5554 seconds of sidereal time. This, however, at the rate of
gain of 3 minutes, 56% minutes a day approximates an entire day each
year and so prevents any upset to our premise.

For strictly precise work in the diumal charts it would have to be
recognized that the orbital speed of the Earth around the Sun is not uni-
form, but varies in accordance with Kepler's principle of the Law of
Areas. There is an equation of time in the difference between mean and
apparent solar, or Sun, time. This reaches as great a maximum value as
PLUS 14 minutes 28 seconds on February 11th, and as much as MINUS
16 minutes 21 seconds on November 3rd. Therefore the Sidereal Time
difference between two Solar Returns, computed at 0° of Aries, will be
between five and one half and six hours;—not exactly one quarter day
each year. To compute the exact daily increment of Sidereal Time to be
added to diurnal charts it would be necessary to locate the daily orbital
speed of the Earth; or else, divide the total sidereal time differential,
between the two Solar Returns involved, by 365.25. But in interpreta.
tion we are not concerned with exact aspects, inasmuch as there is an orb
of influence in all planetary vibrations. This greatly simplifies matters as
for all general purposes we can simply add one minute (1) for a day.

In interpretation of these diurnal charts, house rulerships, as outlined
in the note section, and cuspal points, should receive greatest attention.

     

 

 


34 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

‘A complete pattern of the actual cosmic stimuli, as it is applying at the
specific geographical location in question, is patterned on the chart.
Events cannot only be timed to the hour but often to the minute. When
used with the United States charts the coincidence with governmental
acts, news events, and important decisions is often astonishing. The ap-
plication is more fully discussed in the section on Synthesis.

ADDENDA 1978: readers of the foregoing material in the 1936
edition reproduced here complained of computation problems. Short-cut
or more simplified methods were requested. I admit the subsequent de-
mands of daily work forced faster although less precise mathematics,
with good quality results. See the chapter: An “Over”-Simplified
Method, ete.

CHAPTER THREE

SYNTHESIS—ESTIMATING
ECONOMIC TRENDS

In spite of the many mechanical problems involved in_astro-science,
the greater difficulty concerns interpretation of the charts. The approach
toward precise interpretation can be taught, but the actual interpretation
must be learned. No one can teach the actual synthesis of all the po-
tentialities of a chart; it is a natural ability of co-ordination one either
possesses or is without. However, there are many salient factors which
anyone, with some application and study, can apply and use for practical
purposes. If these factors are applied properly the layman is able to at-
tain results quicker, while the practiced interpreter can achieve better
results.

Planets are in constant angular relationship to one another and to the
earth. Each angle is a different facet or blend of the vibratory forces
involved and results in a different psychological motivation than another
angle. Every degree of 360° has its specific nature. For practical pur-
poses, and in line with the rules involving angles graphically illustrated
and discussed in the companion brochure “Market Charts” only a few
of the angles can be considered. These angles, or aspects, principally
used are the 30°, 60°, 90°, 120°, 150° and 180° on both sides of the
Circle, Sometimes the angles of 45° and 135° are also valuable indi-
cators. None of these aspects are, in a true sense, unfavorable; but, as
some generate compression while others generate expansion, the tend-
ency is to term the compression aspects unfavorable and the expansion
aspects favorable. The 30°, 60°, and 120° are favorable; the 150° is
doubtful, and the remainder unfavorable.

In the synthesis of a chart the natures of the planets, the personality
of each sign, the meanings of the houses and a knowledge of the aspects
are all involved. The chart is like a jar of fluid arriving in the laboratory
for analysis. The chemist analyzes the fluid for its complete content.
The interpreter of a chart proceeds in the same manner, weighing each
part.

In estimating business and market trends my first procedure is to 1o-
cate the primary, or major, swings of the indices involved. This appears
to be involved in the Great Mutation of 240 years portent. Set a Solar
Return figure based on this radix (see note section for chart) each year.
For the day to day indications use the diurnal method already discussed,
‘The radix and the diurnals are set for the capital of the country in ques-
tion.

Such a series of charts set over the last seventy five years show a coin-
cidence between the unfavorable aspects of major planets and economic
depression, and the favorable aspects with recovery and prosperity. In
this period the thirteen times Uranus and Saturn were in unfavorable
aspect coincides with thirteen periods of general economic decline. In

 


36 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

the nine times these planets were in favorable aspect decided gains in
business activity were registered seven times, and mild gains in two
times. Since 1896 Uranus and Jupiter have been in favorable aspect
twenty eight times. In every case these aspects coincided with gains in
‘business activity. The July 8th, 1932 depression low coincided with an
exact trine of these pianets on July 9th, 1932—the day the upward

thrust began, A synthesis of the relationships by aspect and sign posi
tions of Jupitér-Satarn-and Uranus plus the Sun Spot Cycle is the
tharkets- Additional details are brought out in the companion brochure,
"Major Trends in American Economics.”

To discover how the national cycles of business, or the primary trends,
will effect a perticular locality superimpose the Solar Return and diur-
nals on the house positions of the locality in question according to the
rulership procedure in Chapter One.

‘The intermediate, or secondary, trends within the primary trend be-
come more involved. ‘The primary trend base is retained in mind as of
major importance; then a figure is set for the Vernal Equinox. This
figure holds rule for the year and the diurnals for each day to follow are
based on its Sidereal Time. However, the implications of the quarterly
Ingresses which follow take precedence over the particular quarter in-
volved.

‘The minor trends, seldom of more than a few days duration in the
same direction on the statistical charts of business activity and markets,
are the most difficult procedure of the three types of tends included. In
normal times, where supply and demand operates freely, a barrage or
string of favorable aspects will bring upward movements, and a string
of unfavorable aspects the reverse, But when periods of abnormality
‘occur, and the economic machinery is broken dovin, the rule of favorable
and unfavorable aspects does not hold on the minor trend because of one
or more major motivating forces which cuts off or neutralizes the tempo-
rary minor forces. Such situations develop regularly, such as the opposi-
tion aspect of Saturn to Neptune which was in force during 1935 and
will be more strongly in force in the first ten months of 1936, Lunation
figures reveal their influences.

‘The change from one sign to another by a planet coincides with
change in trend and general psychology, depending on the magnitude
and speed of the planet. Mercury changing signs is a powerful market
factor, for instance, in this connection,

In commodity markets the Mox ir ant in marking turns. The
time of the New Moon-oF Lunation, andthe Full Mooneare citiel

ry points; and, if a commodity makes a high (or a low) on one
key day it will maintain its new trend until the next key day. Occasion-
ally key days develop simultaneously and thereby mark extremely criti-
cal points. ‘Those days termed key days are when the Moon is in square
aspect to either Mercury, Mars or Venus. Another factor of importance,
particularly in commodity markets, are the planetary hours of each day.
Their use in hour to hour observations is of great value.

 

 

 

 

SYNTHESIS—ESTIMATING ECONOMIC TRENDS. 37

For corporation events, and the probable activity of their securities,
uuse as a radix chart the mundane house positions described in Chapter
One; and the methods of Chapter Two set for the date of incorporation
and located at the place of the home office. If the exact data is known
set the diurnals according to the Sidereal Time of the exact Solar Re-
turn. If not, it is best to watch the interaction of the transits in connec-
tion with the incorporation radix set for the home office location and its
radix positions and progressions, according to mundane rulership cusps.

‘Some success can be attained by using the diurnals based on the Solar
Return of the New York Stock Exchange radix at the corporation home
office location and superimposing the corporation radix positions on the
diurnals. In the matter of markets, however, it must be stressed that
technical market factors, and particularly the statistical market charts,
are the yardsticks of market action. Motivating influences are reflected
by the planetary positions, but there must be a yardstick first.

‘The student of business trends quickly realizes that it is a fundamen-
tal law that supply and demand are never equal for any length of time.
All the man made economic planning ever conceived will never upset
that law. The problem of droughts, insects, scourges and rainfall can
never be completely controlled in growing commodities. An average of
many crops will about coordinate with basic demand, but to have every
crop at exactly the average is impossible. Yet shortages at one geo-
graphical location and surpluses at another can be detected by the inter-
weaving cycles which average out to the major cycle. These inter-
weaving cycles can be estimated for mundane rulerships (geographical
locations) by using major conjunctions as the radix or beginning point.
‘The rotational conjunctions are very useful also.

In the Jupiter-Saturn Rotational Radix (see chart section) the point
of wheat is found by subtracting the position of the Sun (at the conjune-
tion moment) from the position of the conjunction and adding the
Ascendant. This is a radix point entered and used in much the same
manner as Pars Fortuna is used in a natal chart. In the 1901 figure for
London this point fell in the second house in conjunction with the Moon
at 12° 36 Cancer and opposing the point of conjunction at 14° 0’ 18”
Capricorn, This figure included the period of the War, when wheat
shortages were intense. In the 1921 Conjunction (Jupiter-Saturn) at
London the point of wheat is in 10° 43° Leo in conjunction with Neptune
and Venus. The point of barley is found by subtracting the place of the
‘Moon from the place of Jupiter and adding the ascendant; sugar by
subtracting Mercury from Venus and adding ascendant; rye by sub-
tracting Mercury from Saturn and adding ascendant; cotton by sub-
tracting Mercury from Mars and adding ascendant. These “points” are
to use for supplemental purposes, however, for though they work in a
unique manner the scientific basis for them is not clear. The basic idea
was suggested by Pallicus in an unpublished manuscript now in the
British Museum.

The cycles of each planet, viz, Mars, Venus, etc, are so well known as
significant co-ordinates with the cycles of various phases of economic

  

 


38 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

life that they need not be repeated here except to call attention to them.
‘The layman will find the seven lessons on Mundane Astrology, issued
by the Brotherhood of Light at Los Angeles, valuable in this connection.

In the problems involving aspects, orbs of influence, etc, the probable
moment of greatest intensity of an aspect is sometimes disconcerting. At
one time, particularly where mundane rulership figures are concerned
and in aspects to cusps and radix positions in diurnal figures, aspects
seem to be strongest when approaching than when exact or passing. At
other moments the reverse seems to occur. It is not the fault of the
computations in the ephemeris or the figure involved, but appears to be
caused by the mean obliquity of the Ecliptic. In 1936 this is 23° 26"
51”40; the difference between the earth's poles and the ecliptic’s poles.
‘This obviously throws every point of the zodiac measured at the Equa-
tor, except Aries and Libra degrees, off in declination from one to four
degrees. Depending on the declination depends whether the approach-
ing, the exact, or the passed aspect is most powerful. Such a situation
can delay 2 market turn, marked by an aspect of slow moving planets,
as much as several months; and in the case of an aspect of rapidly mov-
ing planets, several days (and of course, conversely, ahead of the ephem-
eral positions). This is particularly noticeable in 1935 when the im-
portant aspects involving Gemini, Cancer and Leo practically all were
strongest when approaching or ahead of time, while those involving
Sagittarius and Capricorn were behind time. This is a problem to in-
volve careful consideration by observers.

 

 

CHAPTER FOUR

THE HOUSES IN MUNDANE
AND CORPORATION CHARTS

FIRST HOUSE: General circumstances and temper of the people, their
general health and vitality and sense of optimism or pessimism.

CORPORATION: The place of the corporation in relation to the
public, its stockholders, and business objectives. (Note ruler of asc. and
aspects),

  

SECOND HOUSE: Governme:

ditions, business and trade acti

matters of money.
CORPORATION: earnings and profit abilities.

 

‘Treasury, banking and currency con-
,, taxation and national income; all

 

THIRD HOUSE: Transportation and communications, including rails,
telephone and telegraph, commercial radio, demand for stocks and
bonds, trade volume, technical publications, financial and trade relations
with adjacent countries, short distance travel.

CORPORATION: Relations competitors, transportation and
communications, some advertising, bookkeeping accounts, internal agree-
ments.

 

 

FOURTH HOUSE: Real property, mining, crops, public works and
buildings, weather, anti-administration faction in politics, exploration,
socialization.

CORPORATION: Tangible assets, direct competition, power of com-
petitors, hazards involving property.

 

FIFTH HOUSE: Amusements and entertainment, including theatres
and radio; phases of publishing, publicity and advertising; children and
places where women and children congregate; the emotional aspects of
mass psychology; domestic welfare of the nation; speculative activity
and conditions.

CORPORATION: Subsidiaries or branches, advertising success, is
come from capital, the place of deposit of capital such as safes, vaults,
and banks, the motivating center.

 

 

SIXTH HOUSE: The state of public health, Army and Navy, condition
of the masses—particularly labor, net financial results of fifth house
affairs, foodstuffs, wearing apparel.

CORPORATION: Employees—including their character and health,
corporation connection with hostelries, agriculture and agricultural
products, working equipment, fixtures and furnishings.

SEVENTH HOUSE: International relations, including treaties; threats


40 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

of war and overtures of peace; foreign trade; marriage and divorce, in-
cluding civil suits opposed to popular opinion; opponents.

CORPORATION: Public accountings; adjustments; employee income
‘and payrolls; volume of sales; best method of sales appeal.

EIGHTH HOUSE: Foreign finance, including effects of foreign ex-
change; financial results of treaties; the cabinet of the government; op-
position to trade balances; national budget; flow of money; taxatis
death rate.

CORPORATION: Credits; private conferences; all confidential in-
formation and trade secrets; the board of directors; net earnings.

 

NINTH HOUSE: The courts; legal, religious, philosophical and scien-
tific developments; foreign trade and shipping; long distance travel;
foreign news; insurance; resources of labor and the masses,
CORPORATION: Completion of contracts; litigation; audits; in-
surance; shipping; affiliations at a distance; inter-company correspond-

 

 

TENTH HOUSE: The president or ruler; mayor of a city; political
activity of the party in power; vested authority; business activity and
tumover; leaders.

CORPORATION: The corporation head, or administrative depart-
‘ment (note particularly the positions and aspects of the Sun); general
business conditions; relations with government and associations.

ELEVENTH HOUSE: The Senate; The House of Representatives;
financial results of government policies; money volume of business activ-
;; legislation affecting business and government activity; government
obligations; utilities

CORPORATION: Corporation friends; resources of the head of the
organization; political connections; constitutional policies; the good-will
and intangible assets; indebtedness in bonds, mortgages, etc; treasurer.

  

TWELFTH HOUSE: All limitations, secrets, and moral obligations of
government and business; the results of litigation; all publie institutions
such as reformatories, jails, hospitals and asylums; all speculative fea-
tures involving eighth house affairs; all secret dealings involving the
country.

CORPORATION: Experimentation and research; trade secrets, for-
mulae and methods; limitations through secret enemies, including i
efficiency; effects of litigation.

 

KEY-WORDS FOR INTERPRETATION OF THE PLANETS

Sun (©)—Government and administrators, authority, gold, specula-
tion, theatre as a business, etc.

HOUSES IN MUNDANE AND CORPORATION CHARTS 41

Moon (> )—Masses, crowds, crop harvests, popular ideas, sea, water.

Mercury ( % )—Media, trade, commerce, publishing, advertising, doc-
tora printers short travel

Venus (2 ) architecture, art, fashion, musi halls reerestion,

Mars ( $ )—Army, Navy, surgeons, war, violence, epidemics, iron, steel,
explosives, machinery, munitions, tobacco, sports.

Jupiter (11)--banking, brokers ‘courts, churches, favorable aspects
abundance, unfavorable extrevagance. ernie

aturn ('>)-favorable aopects: patience, unfavorable: loss, depression;
bor tad laboring places, the land oo of farms, gisin, mines, Teal
eetate, moutinous place, the eged.

Uranus (3 )—fevorable expects: change, unfavorable: disruptive; air

-UEEETE ledvonicn, valroeds tornadoes strikes, radio energy, tiie,
political socialism, Wé{-

Neptune ('U)-—fevorable aspects: creative, unfavorable: deception:
cots, beveragea, hospital bogus business operations, nareotics and
drug companies, oil, photography, political idealism.

Plato (B) favorable eopects: cooperation, unfavorable: compulsion,
serBs ceases stares seas -ecScEEsfs0sie eye acest

SFIS SSEHTAL ETT OTIESTELSTPE SHIN LaTGETTTETITLSEIETRIEE

Soon will suggest additions)

 

 

 

‘rides have
place. In this situation American, British and Oriental studies ure slightly different
symbols from those most used in Continental Europe. For example, the Pluto symbol
in European style seems to be a distorted Venus symbol of the American British
form. Other sometimes disturbing differences appear in symbols for other planets
Tn this text symbole now growing in general acceptance are used. Note the often
uted symbol for Uranus, often mistaken for Neptune, is the European form. Unlike
the symbol for Mars there is a dot in the ring and the stem is a vertical arrow.

 

 

   


CHAPTER FIVE

ECLIPSES

One of the most important factors in mundane interpretation is to
follow the effect of eclipses. Eclipses are most intense in their effects
where they are visible. Sepharia’s rule for finding the duration of the
effects of an eclipse is: find the distance of the eclipsed luminary at con-
junction or opposition from the Node. Then if 5° be divided by this
distance, the magnitude of the eclipse will be obtained. Then for dura-
tion—as 1 is to 60, so is the magnitude to the number of months the
eclipse will indicate. Thus:

 

Distance from Node Magnitude Years Duration Months Duration

ue 20.00 100 °
Mae 10.00 50 0
eo 6.66 33 4
fae 5.00 25 0
14e 4.00 20 0
14° 333 16 8
1%? 2.857 14 3%
Fie 2.50 12 0
2° 2.22 i 1
234° 2.00 10 0
23° 1.818 8 4
Smee 1.67 7 8
3% 143 7 8
ae 1.25 6 3
Sana 1.00 5 0
6° 833 4 1%
8° 625 3 1%
10 ° 3 2 6
15° 333 1 8

For interpretation of eclipses refer to “Eclipses in Theory and Prac-
tice” by Sepharial, and Raphael's “Mundane Astrology.”

CHAPTER SIX

INTERPRETATION OF THE PLANETS
IN THE HOUSES AND SIGNS

When the student of astrology has mastered the mechanical phases of
interpretation and begins to estimate the many influences involved in
each chart many difficulties develop. A planet or house in one position
is effective in a manner different from another position, The text-books
contain tremendously voluminous tabulations of all the shades of mean-
ings in each position, but then probably every possible meaning has
never been in print. The whole problem of life and living is involved
in a chart. Either more years of experience than can be crowded into
one lifetime or a gargantuan memory would completely meet the prob-
Tem. However, there is a simple way of getting into a chart, which does
not attempt to tax the memory, and at the same time holds to simple
first principles.

‘As discussed under Chapter One the Sun is attributed to rulership of
the sign Leo, the fifth mundane house. The Sun's “personality” is colored
by the fifth house influence but when it is in a chart its action depends
on its sign position in relation to the sign Leo, with Leo as its first house.
In other words the Sun in Leo is the Sun operating in a first house
manner, but the Sun in Aquarius is the Sun operating in a seventh house
manner—Aquarius being the 7th house from Leo. Now, in a radix the
Sun may be in Leo in the 10th house. Then the Sun is operating in a
first house manner through, or giving expression to this first house man-
ner, the 10th house. In the same manner, Virgo is the first house of
Mercury (it rules Virgo); then Mercury in Capricorn would be the
Mercury nature or “personality” working in a fifth house manner, plus
some of the eleventh house because it is the lower octave ruler of
Gemit

‘When the nature of each planet is learned, and the rulerships applied,
a mental “key-word” system soon develops which quickly tabulates in
the mind a large number of meanings to every planetary and sign posi-
tion. Then if the text-books giving the multitudes of meanings are used,
to build up a further understanding of specific meanings, progress can
be made. The sooner a student is able to get away from reference works
the better his ability of perception and interpretation becomes.

‘The basic texts for this are many. Alan Leo stressed this method of
approaching what he called “memory co-ordination” but text-books ap-
parently ignored the complete practicality of the point. However, re-
cently Sidney K. Bennett developed several texts on interpretation along
these lines which are of enormous interpretive value, to both the student
and the professional, and decidedly worth their published price to both
layman and student.

Tn mundane interpretation there is a great lack of reference material.

 


44 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

For general purposes Raphael's “Mundane Astrology” and A. J. Pearce's
“Textbook of Astrology” are most useful.

Jn connection with planetary positions by both sign and house, de-
tailed interpretation finds a tremendous source of help in taking cog-
nizance of the fixed stars, Authoritative texts on this phase of the field
are, “The Fixed Stars and Constellations” by Vivian E, Robson, and
‘olndro's Stars, "FIXED STARS and their inferpretation® by Ebertin
‘Hoffman; English Edition published 1973 by Ebertin-Verlag.

   

 

 

 

CHAPTER SEVEN

CASTING MUNDANE CHARTS

Mathematical precision to the second is not necessary in setting a
geocentric chart of the heavens. Although there is no harm in comput-
ing every figure with the mathematical methods of an astronomical
observatory the time consumed is far better placed on interpretation. A
simple method of working is as follows. An ephemeris designed for
astrological work for the years to be considered, a Tables of Houses, and
blank chart forms are needed.

First, enter on the chart blank the house cusp degrees and signs.

‘This is done by converting the time data to standard time, if in day-
light saving time; then find how far the location is in degrees from the
nearest Standard Meridian Time Line. Add four minutes for each de-
gree the location is East of that meridian, but subtract four minutes for
each degree it is West (if West). The result is True Local Time.

In the ephemeris take the sidereal time for noon PREVIOUS to the
chart location time and ADD:

 

(1) Sidereal Time for noon previous in ephemeris

(2) 10 seconds correction for every 15 degrees longitude
(3) The interval between previous noon and chart time
(4) 10 seconds correction for each hour of this period

‘The result is the sidereal Time of the chart.

Under the proper latitude in the Tables of Houses find that sidereal
time which is closest to the sidereal time of the chart and from the
‘Tables enter the signs and degrees on the proper house cusps of the
chart.

‘Second, enter the planets in the houses of the chart.

Find Greenwich Mean Time by multiplying the degrees of longitude
by 4 and divide by 60’, and add to the True Local Time, if West Longi-
tude.

By logarithms, simple proportion, or preferably mathematical tables,
compute the distance of travel of each planet since the Greenwich
Time and zodiacal place shown in the ephemeris. Some ephemerides
show the places of the planets at noon and some show them at midnight
—make sure which.

Enter the computed positions in their proper places on the chart,

Third, compute the declinations and latitudes of each planet and
tabulate these positions.

Fourth, tabulate all the major aspects in a speculum, and from the
section of notes in this manual tabulate the natures and powers of each
planet,

(Note: diurnal figures are cast according to Chapter Two)


CHAPTER EIGHT

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

‘The hundreds of volumes which have been consulted over a period of
many years, combined with tests and practice of the many methods
presented, has gradually evolved the material in this manual. The
pages which follow are the framework of a ready reference note-book
which is in daily use. The layman will find much of the data difficult to
apply, but if the text-books referred to in the foregoing chapters are
consulted the applications will be immediately made clear, for these
notes are of valuable assistance.

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 47

   
   
 

   
     

NOTES


48

NOTES

 

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Sappienent azure
of Broe Stateion

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 49

16°50"

11°8"

    

 
 

ge
duly ah, 1770, Phe
igh ba 020°P

   
     

7
08.3
Sm ris" 6g
UME
BAY

x
19°8"

16°50"
~
58”.8

NOTES


50 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Soa tic kia

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

‘Auras 26h 1203
conta

 

51


52

NOTES

 

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 53

NOTES

 

cHT¢AGO. TH


54 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

70:80 43,

 

NOTES

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS

NOTES

 

55


56

NOTES

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 37

 

THE PLANETS ‘THE SIGNS
Sun—© Moon) Mercury— Aries Taurus Gemini—1¢
Venus—? Karth—@ Mars—3 Cancers Leo—S._—Virgo—m
Jupiter—U Satum—b Uranus Libra Seorpio—m|_ Sagittarius —7*

Neptune— ty Pluto—2 Capricorn—¥5 Aquarius—= Pisces

PLANETARY AND SIGN NATURES
CARDINAL SIGNS—Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn
FIXED SIGNS—Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius
‘COMMON SIGNS—Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces

 

FIRE SIGNS—Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius
EARTH SIGNS—Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn
AIR SIGNS—Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius
WATER SIGNS—Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces

POSITIVE SIGNS—Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and
“Aquarius

NEGATIVE SIGNS—Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and
Pisces (Positive signs are masculine, negative are feminine)

BARREN SIGNS—Aries, Gemini, Leo, and Virgo
FRUITFUL SIGNS—Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, Sagittarius, and Pisces
INDIFFERENT SIGNS—Libra, Capricorn, and Aquarius

 

   

 

PLANETARY

PLANETARY POWERS REVOLUTIONS

Detri. Exalta

Planet Rules ‘ment — tion” ‘Fall, arth —365 days 7 hours
SUN o. ‘T — & Moon—28 Days eround earth
VENUS— 3 XM Mercury—88 da
MERCURY— iim m = SL Venus—224 days
MoON— % Maret year 322 days
SATURN— 8 2 = PT Jupiter—11 years 322 days
JUPITER 7 %  — WS Seturn—29 years 167 days
MaRs— Pm) 5) = CS) Uramus—84 years
URANUS— =  — &  Neptune—164 years 167 days
NEPTUNE— 5
PLUTO? a

 

DECANATE SIGN DIVISIONS

 

 

 

 

r[strts tx [nl= [mi TB Te Te
T{s[a{s[a[ml2 [mix [we [x De
Al[ml[e=i[ml [os lel ly fe [ols
4 [8 fe pel rls [rls [tpl tm

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


58 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ys [r[s[alm nl* [os Tee
z/+[¥[> [eo [es] [es Ta Tr
o[# [sla [+s [ale [a] se |e
wis ileilel<lel¥ [> lol stale
DECANATE PLANETARY RULERSHIPS
PLANETARY
CRITICAL DEGREES ‘TIME PERIODS

(Planets of house cusps in these degrees have
intensified effects)

‘Moon—4 years
‘Moreury—10 years

  

 

Aries 1°, 13°, 26°, Libra 1°, 13°, 26° Venus —8 years
Taurus 9°, 21°. Scorpio 9°, 21° Sun—19 years
Gemini 4°, 17° Sagittarius 4°, 17°. Mars—18 years
Cancer 1", 13", 26°. Capricorn 1°,"13*, 26°. Jupiter—12 years
Leo 9", 21° ‘Aquarius 9°, 21° Saturn—40 years
Virgo 4°, 17°. Pisces 4°, 17° ‘Uranus—90 years

 

Neptune—180 years

TO CALCULATE THE PART OF FORTUNE
‘Add to the Longitude of the Moon the Longitude of the Ascendant
and subtract the longitude of the Sun from the total.

‘TO CALCULATE GREENWICH MEAN TIME
FOR ANY POINT WEST LONGITUDE,

‘Add four minutes for each degree of longitude the location is WEST
of Greenwich to the true local time at the focation.

TO CALCULATE TRUE LOCAL TIME

‘To the nearest Standard Meridian Time, ADD four minutes for each
degree the location is EAST of the Meridian corresponding to that
time. If the location is WEST of that Meridian, SUBTRACT four min-
utes for each degree it is WEST thereof.

TO CALCULATE THE ADJUSTED CALCULATION DATE
Gor secondary directions)

(a) Compute the interval from G. M, T. to following noon

(b) To this interval add the Sidereal Time for G. M. T. noon on the
radix day—this equals the Sidereal Time of the Adj. Calcu, Date.

(c) If the G. M. T. falls in the a.m—count forward in the ephem-

(4) If the G. M. T. falls in the P.M, or in the AM. of the next day,
count backwards.
‘TO ADJUST CUSPS FOR A POINT
REMOTE FROM THE RADIX LOCATION

To the Sidereal Time of the radix, if the direction be EAST, ADD—
if the direction be WEST, SUBTRACT—the difference in longitude,

NOTES, BASE CHARTS, KEYS 59

reduced to hours and minutes. With this new Sidereal Time the house
cusps of the new location are taken from the Tables of Houses. The
planets are inserted in the same zodiacal signs, degrees and minutes as
in the radix chart. A new Part of Fortune position is calculated accord-
ing to the revised Ascendant.

TO PROGRESS A RADIX FIGURE WHEN AN EPHEMERIS
IS NOT AVAILABLE
(Note section on Progressions and Transits in this manual)

 

  

 

Years Are Months Are. Days Are.
1 0.59" 08" 1 445" 1 10"
2 158" 17" 2 ay 2 0 20"
3 257 25" 3 war 3 30"
4 3.56 33° 4 19°43" 4 0 30"
5 455! 42" 5 2a 38” 5 0 49"
6 554 50° 6 29" 34" 6 0 59"
1 653" 58° 7 34" 30” 7 V 09"
8 753 OT 8 39° 26" 8 V9"
9 85215" 9 ay 21" 9 129"
10 951" 23" 0 4917" 10 139"

Compute Moon's rate: 13° 10° 35” per year

MUNDANE PLANETARY HOUSES BY PLANETS
Aries is the first sign of the zodiac and occupies the first house in

the natural zodiac. Its ruler is Mars. Therefore no matter where Mars

falls in a radix figure it exerts a first house influence. In the same way,

Venus ruling Taurus the second natural zodiacal sign is a financial and

second house influence; Mercury, ruling Gemini, is a third house in-
luence, ete,

SGN | Y [8 [TS] Li ml=[m[ 4 [ele
RuER |? [¥ [>lolylele ls [stm
wowsel i fe lsl4+{slel7[slolofin

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

x
ra
12

 

 

MUNDANE PLANETARY HOUSES BY SIGNS

Mars, (self, aggression, etc) a first house influence, when located in
Taurus (the natural second sign), exerts its first house influence in a
second house or money and finance manner. The selfness and aggres-
siveness of a Mars in Aries becomes (in Taurus) money aggression. In
@ mundane radix figure this position, for illustration, might appear in
the fifth house. This would presage (Mars in Taurus in the Sth) money
aggression through speculative (5th) channels involving agriculture,
real estate, and mines (With the sign Taurus on the fifth cusp, Aries—
ruled by Mars—would be on the 4th)


60

‘The key to the entire planetary house pattern is as follows

ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 (F[8[D[Ole sles [5 [ae
Tt fei folstel7{[s [Ss {4 [se
B [2] i titi io} gs} ei7{[6{5}4/3
DLs 2tt {iii olo}si7 {6} 5/4
6 14/3} 211 lai iolo|e)7)}615
a[sl4[sl[2ii fel folslel7[6
m lé[s|4[3la2li fialifololel7
2761514) 3/2] 1 i2{iilol 9/6
m{8{7{6[s[4[3[2[i fiat fiolo
7 [elel7{[6lslal3laiifaiifio
B }O|9 (ei 7}Sel5 413 ]ali fiat
a [i folelsel7félsl4a[sl2ii fi
x [l2{u fio] o| al 7]{6é{sj4]s3f{e2{i

 

 

 

CHAPTER NINE

THE UNITED STATES BIRTH CHART

A basic premise of astro computation procedures is precise timing as
mandatory before accurate interpretation can occur. Iti only by chart.
ing the exact moment of the first breath of a child at birth registers the
implications of the lifetime which follows. In much the same tradition
the birth or beginning of a business plan or project, a company or a
nation often reveals future successes, dangers and disasters, Many en-
tire lifetimes have been spent devising, guessing, testing chart times of
beginnings.

‘A. major example in the past 50 years has been the United States
birth, with controversy and almost endless debate over what is the cor-
rect birth chart. ‘Such debates are good exercises in research but none
of them are of value in actual financial decisions. Many years ago a
very earnest researcher came to me with a record of transits to the
position of the Moon in the July 4th, 1776 United States Chart. Hind.
Sight seemed to prove specific market action for years in the past with
this system. A new convergence was to occur in a matter of weeks, Tt
failed completely.

‘The location of the Moon is one position in the Noon or Libra Rising
chart at the left. This figure long wes accepted as offical inasmuch a¢
the Declaration of Independence got its last signature about 11:20 At,
and the official public announcing, by a Town Crier, was a few minutes
alter 12 noon. But critics rose to attack the time of the chart. Libra
Rising with Saturn were not the image or American spirit, or so their
interpretation methods claimed.

In research bulletins of the American Academy of Astrologians, sub-
sequently amplified in my articles in the ASTROLOGICAL BULLE-
TINA, and then presented in the chapter on The Uranus Cycle, the ke
was degrees of Gemini. Uranus was ‘rossinig this area
on July 4th, 1776, just as it had done at the forming of the first colony
iy the SneTS25_agan in he-Tormation of Uhe-Jamestous
Coiony ia 1607 a the Ti 1. Revolution,

“Dus principally to this observation opiee Renee mse 2:19 Aa
July th, 1776 as the chart time for the USA birth, Ie placed Uranus
exactly on the Ascendant and the M. C. in Aquarius with the Moon
nearly conjunct in the 10th house. No longer was the Moon in 24° but
at 18°, promptly ruining the mass of doctrine on progressions, etc,
Students who have spent 25 years and often far much less in astro re,
search study currently boldly proclaim this early morning chart as the
Gemini figure and authentic key to the USA for the past present ora
future. Arguments are endless but the innovative, compasriooste, eek
ence aspiring Uranus on an Ascendant is more romantic than s eeations,
systematic, thrifty Saturn.

For years members of the Continental Congress discussed prepare-

 

  


62 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

tion of a formal statement of principles. The formation of a committee
of three was authorized the morning of June 10th, 1776 to draw up a
declaration to be submitted to the Congress. Thomas Jefferson did the
actual writing which the committee presented. When was the initial
den born? Bu i i historical fact the people of the 13 colonies learned
se hee stn ea esse cance ei
tage anaes ene:

In the chart for noon Saturn is a key. As Llewellyn George often
Ser ae Sete eet esa er ae wh oes
Sears tee cited saa estate aoe seca enconiees
most cursory examination of The Wansiio! Satan in te Lita Rising
chart through the 9th, 10th and 11th Houses in American history is a
Glock; timings problems—When Saturn has been aspected by other slow
‘moving planet positions at each of these periods the effects are specific.
‘The phenomena may be now traced back for two centuries for confirma-
tion. One obvious example was in the years immediately following
1929, Foreign affairs in the 1920's had been beyond the capacities of
private enterprise credit and financial resources and the confidence
which accrued. A major effect of the 1929 crash was mortgage fore-
closures on a broad scale, Reference to page 39 of section I lists house
tmoanings ‘In 1930 eapancive and optinitc Jupiter war at the MC of
Ss UE LAGIaT Sie ratsctg bee eevee oaiees ese ees
pposed by Saturn the reaper and depreset atte carp ofthe sth house
(real property, tangible assets, anti-optimistic vested authority, etc).
‘To compound this stern indication was the square of Uranus near a
rea ascics als Mae an tne cis che i eo ees ater
foreign trade, worker income and payrolls, sales volume of business,
etc.). This forms a devestating negative situation and for the USA
notably severe. The first signs of any relief did not appear until the
second quarter of 132 with'une init nancial socovery ppparent aa of
Saif Se ease cia’ot sane neat Uranas ean Geer reeled
tient Area

‘Comparable inspections may be made from an ephemeris of the year
involved and planetary positons compared Use sapactinteacton and
the rolated USA Libra chart portions according to planet meanings on
Pate sar Adtaatallgicier eit ea aes CHE IE aoe ee
then is ignore for the moment any “birth” such as the foregoing USA
gure In 1080° jupiter moved isto the sign of Cancer sf mlyeor
On page 59 the horizontal column lists, Jupiter as ruling the sign

_Bacitatlag Ta the ches coveteg Dae Se Toate ee
“Jupiter's 8th house position. Under 8th house on page 40 an 8th house
Jupiter centers atcrion to foreign fnancen money How, edie ete
When in this Cancer sign portion’ an opposition Trem Satan pls the
Ices fof rac frets todacas (et natn eere crea econ
Sscrisded in an einclentingeshacs ead uate meee oe Mace
Node neared conjunction with Uranus to mapeily the eects of the

Sejttater Ureeee Sorento
‘AS noted on pase 8 Jupiter ast ful circle approximately every

 

 

‘THE UNITED STATES BIRTH CHART 63

12 years. A return to the si x. for an example of a different
climate than the early 1930's, was in 1954, The nation, in fact the
world, had struggled through the ruins of World War II and seemed to
have contrived a foundation for renewed growth. People generally were
discouraged and doggedly hoping for better things but were at low ebb
in 1953 (Saturn in conjunction with Neptune in Libra squared by
Uranus in the sign Cancer.) However, in 1954 Jupiter moved into
Cancer while Saturn shifted into the sign Scorpio (a trine). The Uranus
Neptune square aspect activated inflated credits in its release from
Saturn, while the Moon's Node was sextile Neptune. The belated sec-
ondary post-war boom was underway. Serious exhaustion did not de-
velop until late in 1965 although reactions and readjustments appeared
in 1957, 1960 and 1962, Examination of those years in terms of the
foregoing methods may prove a valuable investment in interpretation
skills,

(N. B. In your initial examination—using only the ephemeris for the
years involved, make note of the sign-house of each planet, viz Neptune
in Libra is its 8th; Saturn in Libra its 10th. Thus Neptune in its sign-
house 8th reflects unlimited aspirations for money in co-operative plans
with others. Uranus Cancer is Uranus 6th sign-house denoting public
spending for military, public works, ecology, nurture of labor & agricul
ture.)

‘The ultimate in interpretation tools is found in proven “birth” time
‘as chert formations with the location usually the capital of a country.
But for serious mundane conclusions charts erected for each quarteriy
ingress a year and all the lunations are useful. Locations selected de-
pend on the subject matter. Here is a juncture where a maze of com-
putations and stacks of charts can form which defeats the basic study:
direct and simple means of aiding a conclusion without nit-picking the
impossible.

Often it is sad and very wry to read or hear about some group of
scholars, economists and statisticians had compiled masses of data which
programmed a huge computer. The answer was that employment would
increase and in another period of so many months unemployment would
shrink to so much. It is all very well but grasp the time and efforts in-
volved to conclude these generalizations. Your batting average may
never be 100% but with some time and concerted effort it can be far
ahead of the pro group. Of course, we also have to be realistic in realiz~
ing the majority only listen to what it wants to hear and what fits their
hopes or misgivings at the time.

Forecast a probable boom and no one believes it. When it occurs
they say they are sorry they didn’t listen. Forecast an economic or mar-
kket peak and a barrage of quotes that so and so, or this and that source,
states things are going much higher. Then remorse when the peak is
confirmed no action was taken. But that is the way of life; people work-
ing out their own bumbling destiny the hard way and often to die in
frustration and considerable despair. Generally denied only a very few
exert the effort and stamina to find Nature’s immutable laws and actu-

 


4 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

ally heed them. Only very bad forecasts, which are from 50 to 100%
wrong, are generally heeded as they seem to have the profound ability
to get into print and be widely quoted. A person has to dig out his own
progress if itis to be lasting. Tt can open up extraordinary opportunities.

Learn through texts the inherent qualities and features of each planet
as experienced from ancient times. Expansive and generally benefic by
themselves are Jupiter and Venus; Mars vigorous, aggressive, forceful,
etc. And the angular relations are extremely significant. Briefly, two
classes of angles dominate; one is the 90° span of 90, 45, 22%, ete; the
other the 120° group of 120, 60, 30, 15, ete. Sometimes both occur
terlocked at one time such as 3 15's making a 45, These related degrees
are, with inherent planet qualities, intensely important end often super-
sede the various complete chart figures. i

Close grasp of the significance and operation of angular relationships
are very important. In the concluding section of this work these angles
become the foundation of the program used to define probable market
trends as to prices and timing of swings and probable amplitude, using
the daily, weekly and monthly price ranges of stocks and commodities.

‘The preceding two sections—major cyclic trends and cyclic interpre-
tation factors—are a simplified foundation for the real goal of workable
methods.

 

  

CHAPTER TEN

AN “OVER”’—SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF
ASTRO-CYCLE INTERPRETATION

‘Traditionalists call for the erection of astro chart figures based on a
precise time and place. For mundane subjects such as business and
market trends this means charting the exact time of the four quarterly
Ingresses of the Sun as each quarter-year begins. The place is the
locality considered the center of the subject such as a national capital.
‘Supplementing the Ingress figures are each New Moon, and sometimes
each Moon Quarter. This practice is mandatory for precise results.

‘The new student trying to get into the field without the tedium of
perhaps months of study may find this simple method encouraging and
profitable, and ignore tradition.

The initial requirement is an ephemeris for the period to be studied.
The immediate and current year usually contains the interest. A geo-
centric ephemeris is needed; this is a revised version of the official
heliocentric ephemeris issued by a number of governments for military,
naval and other astronomical applications. As we are interested in the
effects of solar and other cosmic radiation and reflective rays on the
Earth a heliocentric (Sun as center of the angular relationships)
ephemeris would be a distortion from the standpoint of the Earth.

‘Most complete ephemeris is RAPHAEL'S for the year desired. Pub-
lished in London for a century it is available for about $3 a copy through
most bookshops. More available and in a simple format is the Rosicru-
cian Fellowship Ephemeris, P. O. Box 713, Oceanside, Calif. 92054 at
$1.50 for each year desired. (Note: although not used in this simple
method later work will require a Table of Houses. Several are available
with the most economical and simple to use is that of the Rosicrucian
Fellowship. The various blank forms may be deferred.)

Instead of theorizing let us take an example and work on it as an
illustration you can check out for yourself. It is the afternoon of
August Ist, 1976. Current newspapers and business magazines are
chortling over bullish trends. Opinion seems general things are con-
solidating for a long boom. The statistics continue to reflect steady gains
since the upswing began in early 1975 in business and the low of stocks
late in 1974, Very nice! We can go back to sleep, buy more stocks and
continue to rake in the business as things are better than they were and
are all set to be better for a long time ahead!! Typical? Yes, and usually
wrong.

So get a sheet of paper, a pencil or a pen that writes an original, and
that ephemeris for the year 1976 and August. On the Ist we find funny
looking things heading columns of figures. We want the page carrying
DECLINATION OF THE PLANETS

Out of this apparent maze of columns we shall only check three:

 

 


66 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Uranus (8) 3 Scorpio (m)
Saturn (>) 6 Leo  (S.)
Jupiter (2) 27 Taurus (3)

‘Taurus in the zodiac circle is opposition (180°) Scorpio and
square (90°) Leo. This means that Leo is square both Taurus
and Scorpio.

In the above Jupiter has small potency as it is not “in orb” to Uranus
and Saturn, but the latter are in orb. Taking the three as a unit the
news reports and forecasts are “whistling in the dark to bolster their
spirits” The foundation is precarious.

Reference 60 Section IX Jupiter in Taurus (21 & ) is a 6th sign house
in a 2nd house sign; our notes show this involves money for national
health and safety (it could refer to vaccine, relief from flood) but also
an unusual demand for money by organized workers.

‘Next, the Uranus in Scorpio (6 Tl) again refer to page 60; an 8th
sign house in a 10th sign house suggests a large number of public policies
are viewed as irrational in matters of spending and taxation, foreign
affairs, currency and foreign exchange.

And last, Saturn in Leo ( L) a Sth house sign in an 8th sign house.
National apprehension over children and their lack of freedom of choice
in education, low standards of public morality, debate on national budg-
ets and taxes, lack of financial speculative confidence.

“The only action in this three-way is Saturn (curtailment, discipline)
is directly in mutual assault with Uranus (innovation, impulsive, emo-
tional) and with Jupiter momentarily inactive (out of orb) we have a
nation confined largely to routine pursuits. It seems to reflect the early
August state due to the political situation. The same forces affect other
nations; various degree of turmoil, revolution, war and war threats are
occurring in Asia, Africa and Middle-East.

As the newspapers report, the statistics are good; but the astro-cycle
data state it is a neutral and precarious situation. Conclusion: it is a
period for caution, For the probable time and direction of change we
examine Jupiter's pattern several months from now. Then the basis of
a forecast will begin to form.

In the astro-cycle data the obvious basis for the upswing in the stock
market from mid-1970 (the very favorable aspects between Jupiter,
Saturn and Uranus) was due to subside as sign changes developing in
the last half of 1972 neutralized the bullish psychology. The Transport
Average tried a new high in the second quarter (1972) to broach the
preceding triple highs of 1966, 1967 and 1968-9 but failed by a fraction
and declined. But the Industrial Average continued strong and sur-
mounted their preceding 1966 and 1968 highs until January 1973 when
weakness took hold. Jupiter in Capricorn formed a conjunctions with
the Moon's Node and a full square (90°) to Uranus in Libra while
Saturn was retrograde and neutral in Gemini, In January the Trans-

 

 

 

“OVER"—SIMPLIFIED METHOD OF INTERPRETATION 67

port Average broke the preceding low in October and implied « bear
market, although full confirmation of the Transports by the Industrials
did not occur until November 1973. This established a very bearish
snare chmate for 1978,

Historically this has become an unusual area of national economic
affairs, Pecullar intrusions into supply-demand fectors of commodities
tnd the export markets with unprecedented. price distortions were
Gwarfed by revelations ‘which rumed the Administrative ranch of
government. In our “over”-simplified astro-cycle examination for 1974
we find the Moon's Node in Sagittarius with Saturn in opposition
(180°). Then in April Saturn moved from Gemini into Cancer (this
crosses the Mid-Heaven of, the July ash 1776 U.S. Ch rt) the 4th
House Sign and 7th Sign ‘working toward the square (90°) re-
lation to Uranus in Libra (7th House Sign, 9th Sign House).

By September 1974" sock, market “iguidetion Became rampant,
despite a weak (retrograde) Jupiter forming a trine angle to Saturn,
as both the Moon's Node and Uranus remained virtually unchanged.
Then, late in November, Uranus moved into Scorpio and condiens
changed. By mid-December Jupiter was direct again, moving toward a
trine with Saturn, which was beginning to get the effects of a growing
tine from Uranun To strengthen the patton the Moon's Node reached
a climax by crossing opposite the 9th degree of Gemini, with a sextile
from Pluto which was trine the 9° of Gemini. This was the spot for a
massive low in the stock market for a recovery of at least 15 t0 18
Sate

Tf careful study of the foregoing three paragraphs in relation to the
ephemerides for the years is made by the notes of the economic key-
swords the technique should become clear But you sre stymied by sense
Factors not mentioned in the examples, They involve the Moons Nod,
Pluto and the Jupiter Saturn fink

In Section I the discussion on the twenty-year cycle was the periodic
conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn, For tore thon 100 yer of buss
ness and investment market statistics, beginning in 1812, the booms
and depressions were geared to the angular relation of Jupiter and
Saturn. An enormous amount of time and expense was applied to col-
lect the data and public records earlier then 1897, "The suationshy
Vas. further explored inthe 10308 and presented in-a book by James
Mars Langham. ooeee eee


CHAPTER ELEVEN

THE ASPECTS OR ANGLES
BETWEEN PLANETS

‘The 360° circle of the astro chart is divided into twelve segments of
30° each. These segments are the signs. Their significance forms a
division: four signs are cardinal, four are fixed and four are mutable;
‘nd another division of three Fire, three Earth, three Air and three
Water. ‘The first forms a triangle visually and the second group @
square when drawn on the 12 segment circle. ‘Thus, planet aspects are
of two groups, the square and the triangle or trine.

fe ge ar a on The sae GND
includes: the semi-square or 45° (2), the square or 90° (()), the
sesquiquadrate or 135° ((2) which is 00° plus 45°, and the opposition
or 180° (¢ ). Generally all are unfavorable. i :

‘The trine group has the conjunction under certain conditions, the
semisextile or 30° ( \ ), the sextile or 60° (3k), the trine or 120° (A)
and the quincunx or inconjunet or 150° (/\). Parallels (||) depend on
the plants involved. i

1A market trend interpretation the squares generally are bearish the
trines bullish, Again there are circumstances when such an arbitrary
rule does not apply. There are specific answers to such problems but
things become rather involved in more advance studies involving sign
location of a planet and its Detriment, Exaltation, Fall, Critical degree
and Orb of Aspect. And expecting precise action, such as a market
peak, at the day and hour an aspect becomes exact, may fail. Often
the reason is that an orb of aspect should be allowed, about 2 to 5%
usually is generous, PLUS a trigger. A trigger is a fast moving planet
coming into the major aspect, particularly Mars, sometimes Mercury.
Hindsight will discover it on study from which experience will develop
so advance interpretation can take place. No two situations ever are
alike,

‘The conjunctions of Jupiter and Saturn were but a small part of
defining market trends. But when the various aspects noted in the fore-
going are followed in the ephemeris of the statistics of the year being
examined the parallel between planetary aspects and the statistical
trends soon takes form.

Tn the 1930's and 1940's this usual pattern began to break up. Dis-
concerting lags began to appear; most data was failing. Examination
Found Uranus aspects becoming potent. Some of the phenomena of the
‘Uranus 84 year cycle was detailed in Section I. As time went on it was
found that the shift of economic and money power from private forces
to the budding Washington Bureaucracy was developing a new set of
ules, Private Capitalism and Free Enterprise were more and more
coming under political control through rules of a bureaucratic structure.
t was the principal index to the panic liquidation of 1973 and 1974

THE ASPECTS OR ANGLES BETWEEN PLANETS 69

discussed in the foregoing. To the almost perfect score presented by
James Mars Langham on the interaction of Jupiter and Saturn in busi-
hess and finance for over a century it has been more complicated since
World War IL.

Another useful factor applied to the interpretive procedures in the
foregoing is to use the cycle data of the Moon’s Node.

‘The symbol in the ephemeris of the Moon’s Node is (2). Other nodes
exist but we shall ignore them at this time. This Moon's Node we
mention is more exactly the Moon's North Node. It regresses (counter-
clockwise instead of the clockwise movement of the planets) and makes
the full circle in about 6 months more than 18 years—for our purpose
call it 18 years.

Using that unexplained and unique North American continental
point of 7°-9° Gemini as zero or starting point an unusual business
cycle cadence again appears. It seems to intensify and at times cushion
the interaction patterns of Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus. (Note: recall it
was shown how potent this zero node point was in the timing of the
Uranus cycle, for example the timing of the first settlement in 1523, etc.)

Application of the aspects. both bearish and bullish, to the Moon's
‘Node in the ephemeris for each year, and using the Gemini point as the
‘conjunction on which to form sextiles, squares, trines, etc, the major
market trend takes form. The squares approximate major lows. But
lows after sextiles differ in intensity than lows after trines. In 1976
there is a quincunx or inconjunct following an opposition. Squares for
the lows in this particular cycle were early 1961, 1970 and 1979. For
study it is suggested, beginning with the square following the sextile in
1932, process each year of the stock market with the Moon's Node
aspects in order to grasp the method yourself.

‘Another element in our chain of factors is the probable effects of
Pluto, Relatively new in tracing its probable use it appears to intrude
underworld thinking related to autocratic power ranging from gang
warfare to misuse of established authority. It has generally been as-
signed to rule the sign Scorpio. This bears very careful scrutiny. For
many reasons having no place for discussion here it seems to relate
more to Aries than Scorpio. Debate is unnecessary but in defining
situations where Pluto is prominent consider the Aries climate. Inci-
dentally for a long, long time Mars has been assigned to rule Aries AND
Scorpio with Pluto assigned as co-ruler of Scorpio which is subject to

loubt.

When some facility has been acquired in co-ordinating the planets in
their House Signs, then their Sign Houses, their aspect relationships
from the proper ephemeris, on your note pad, refer to the Keywords in
the group arrangement which follows for your budding interpretation
Progress. In the course of time you then will want to cast complete
charted figures using the Table of Houses already mentioned. Locations
selected as mentioned also start with the Ingresses and then the Luna-
tions.

 

 

  


CHAPTER TWELVE,

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH
HOUSE-SIGNS AND ASPECTS

‘Trend conditions at any given time are vital in any investment
action. If the major trend is upward investment hazards are minimal;
making commitments in a major downward trend or during a rally
correction in a downward trend can be hazardous. Let’ try to illustrate
f process by which circumstances can be defined, We select @ memo-
rable and mast confused period.

In mid-May 1942 both the national and international situation was
considerably mixed. The impact of an attack on Pearl Harbor in the
preceding December had the domestic scene in a general state of
feverish doubts. Turn to Raphael's ephemeris for 1942 and note May
15th. There was a lunation or New Moon at 5:45 a.m. GMT, but we
will not plot it out at this point as too complicated. ‘The individual
planet positions have our attention,

Neptune (\y) in (1) Virgo: 7th Sign-House in a 6th House-Sign,
heavily afflicted (negative aspected). This reflects rumors, false and
true; and a chaotic emotional state among the masses relating to Armed
Services, food, clothing, jobs and the enemy. With a wide conjunction
by Moon's Node, which is precisely square the critical national point of
9° Gemini (30) which signals a classic low in economic trends, it can be
‘2 memorable point in history,

‘Uranus (¢.) in Sth Sign-House and 3rd House-Sign, a general state
of apparent disruption and seemingly chaotic situation in transportation,
feverish attempts to coordinate plans and action by authority, which is
downgraded by public emotions, as neneee

Saturn (>) in 6th Sign-House in 3rd House-Sign, is precisely at
apparent conjunction with Uranus. The people (6th) and 3rd (com-
munications, ideas) feel scared, uncertain, even licked. Briefly adding
to the crisis is Mercury (¢ ) in its Ist and 4th Sign-Houses in the 3rd
House-Sign, amplifying the foregoing and adding worry over property,
crops, etc. And then Venus (7) 12th Sign-House in Ist House-Sign in
square aspect (unfavorable) to Mars in Cancer (25) 4th Sign-House in
10th House-Sign. This latter hopes but distrusts national leadership;
jefly void-of-course (without strong aspects) from the Sun-Moon con-
junction.

Tf we think these notes on each planet through we realize the same
vibrations are world-wide. Obviously the response varies from environ-
‘ment and location how each factor may be most dominant.

 

 

 

Turn to the chapter on MUNDANE RULERSHIPS. The Raphael
Ephemeris positions as of noon GMT May 15th, 1942 are entered in
rulership charts set up for Washington, Tokyo, Berlin and London as

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 1

appended. Note all planet positions are alike but houses difier. The
foregoing interpretation applies to all of them but the locality charts
reflect enormous differences in the accents and psychology in each
location.

‘The London figure has an 11th house concentration which centers
national affairs on government policies and finance, planning, legislation,
‘business and national policies. Ruler of the 10th (leadership) in the
Ascendant (the people) marks a belligerent unity with Venus in 10th
enthusiasm; dogged will to come out on top.

Berlin differs little in problems and practice except Pluto is on the
Ascendant (The People) reflecting a full dictatorship. The Venus to
Plato aspect is waning and past the MC; and square Mars dominates
the 12th, amply reflecting a police state.

The Tokyo figure has leadership (10th) placed in 7th (foreign ad-
versaries), indicated by the Sun, and most concentration on 7th house
(foreign) affairs and 8th house (costs and plans of 7th). The people
(Mars ruler of Ist and 6th) giving cooperation as the square of Venus
is below the horizon confined to misgivings by youth and children.
Neptune marks illusions of success while the Node in the 10th marks
a feeling of well being.

‘The Washington chart has the Gemini concentration past the Nadir
and working upward with all-out attention to planning, finance and all
resources directed to (Saturn ruling 10th) conj. Uranus ruling 11th
(legislation, etc) on longer term. Neptune in 6th allows unleashed
Tumors, but the people (Asc) are unifying (Venus Aries) with a spirit
of willingness to fight in the streets (ruler of Ist at cusp of 4th), if
necessary; a vigor is stirring.

‘This chart should be something of a classic. It marks most positions
under the horizon (the low ebb of a cycle) but most positions rising
(new beginnings). In the latter is the major conj. of Saturn-Uranus in
Gemini with Mercury and Jupiter. If a nation, emotionally and physi-
cally, was ever lower it is hard to find, That it is a low is reflected by
the Node precisely square its critical point at 9° Gemini FOLLOWING
a Trine (this differs from a subsequent square following sextile by the
Node).

 

 

As noted several times 7 to 9 degrees of Gemini mark @ unique
national hinge or critical point. The Node takes about 18% years for a
complete cycle, something over 9 years for each half. Its apparent mo-
tion is counter-clockwise, To further explore the background the
England critical national point seems to work out at 14° of Gemini, Un-
til recent years comment was constant that major British events always
had a similar counterpart later in the United States. British devalua-
tion, British stock market bear markets, British election upsets and
some time later much the same appeared in American affairs. Usually
it timed to the aspects to the Node eritical points.


2 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

[Naw Moor—May 16, dim. Som.

 

 
 
  

    

 

 

     

 

sisal avudbsullexeotsg exisioeanaiivaseen
See ear ari Rete aaerear TBE
ag ise wg Sur sate oe st eae at
Shae tee mie set Sie Be es ih eat det
21343 ib tons sok dois af0 t2os 31 a4oe So2t

lit ~2 2 Tso 1019 S71 49,18 S00 1223-61 _2ae
19) 224

 

 

3 a2 1o0 old sol able a0 1223 6
sii ao]2 Iso loo “on asis 310 1223 81
ia 30 2 200 1020 A} asi8 400 1923 9
dt doL3 a00_tog0 24 asis_sep 1193101
bemt—ao 2219-20 a1 ass a7 3ST
fst a2 ai ipa Si dais S00 1123 1a

list i> 20 toa 71 asin 990 1123 13h

leq. 20,2 22 1020 81 4518 580 1023 14ll
fo 22 avo logo 11 asi8 ayo 1023 ist 23
tk S12 deo tog 111 ai0 “20 1093 toi 220

  

 

 

     

 

    

   

 

 

 

 

  

     
  

 

 

 

        

 

 

 

 

 

‘Thote pages are reproduced from the 1942 Raphael's Ephemeris with the permission

of W. Foulsham & Co, Ltd,, Borks, England

HAY, 1983. {RAPHAEL'S
Seprune.| Herschel —Seturn. Ms
Dee ma ‘Tat. ‘Tat. | Dees | Lat) Doolin

    

  

 

kd ‘Tim rong. | Lat.| Dee. | tong. [3 Dae,
i | P38) row2s 25 14Nse amas sounadr2ssqzemn so14893
2B | 230 41130 ais ie ates ans ils auin?o sol?)
a [fe atis' at Ise B17 S520 ta S48. 9
Pigee au/Sis3e sna aia azlonet eae 38
She'*t1 got “318 ngs 20 M729
aw 19 40 493-111 32 9519 34152
on Ty She aie lo a12 “99 Sop 55 tz 2
Fa Te athe soap 4s got 1d asxcit 8.8 30
als 13 12/17 16129¢41 3808 8 6 S519 7-671 4 BT
ws ia a ie] 2 BAL rad SO 8B
ist QI 46S mg WIN ge ea NE
Late qTate ‘30020 223 19) 8 Sen 47 48 8 ot
iahv & Sis is tyae 198 See a2 Suan aso ot
lite Solis sous°si aaa aul Sepp a9 33.35
re SSilts aie6 s3 ‘os Sule 48 291 sole oe
TSPo oe toate ae aaio 1 Smad 355 118 Sota 40 ABT wT
IS) | 3 35 198s G6 S219 i520 "a2 204 solis 1326 38 918 38
18M | 3. 926 54 2119 28 2an93 304 3818 47, Sap28 SOLS 47
gTe) 3. 627 52 819 41/14 24 564 518 3320 214318 8
20W | 3.50 228 49 5419 5426 19 483 27/17 30, 219 4016 40
ina) oso soe (Panay psaal sae gag 9k Be B
BaP" | 3 2 se omss 1920 1920 35 271 SoS 526 48 OIL 32
Bs [S71 S203 ‘ogo a1 sms 270 3al 0 61, omzs ole
BS | bay) get Gams Oot g Cust ae
Soa [$9415 $8 fran say to sei a3] 1 ot bes 0 0820
QBTETS 1a 42438 69al 4G) 49 47 PSSA RO g
SONA $a] 8 a0 2781 uur is toa aa] 7 Tamas 40 9 8
Safte| $21 396 31 121 Q4[timss 22i4 28i11 119 28 32133
B')255 30) 2 de oggt Sanh 2 "Ak Galak 'S 0 dae 19
Uys | 30 3o 8 20 al aglzz20 do ot 9h0 60 ais 10,
ily | 4 a3 316 aig Si srsie his

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS

out Moon—May $0, 54 28m, 58, am,

  

        
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 

 

 

  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
  

 

Lizimms go yis20 Saimzs senizasy «2H
227 han20 1730" 19a a3 34928 $2458
azn tass0 2020 oat int anat inae 3
Ait na ao meal gS “35 lids teal
|éar_i20 dra 3oa2 118 soz Hondo)

 

82 15 OF 28 22)
721 220 3429 5022 366 921 31\4 10
821 2000 3790 Sane 4a] 7 Bo) 37 8
027 1920 41 om623 11/8 3 42,7
Je27 1820 4401525 1318 als 45,8

 

 

127 1829-43 02123 29 9 19 8 S510

       
 
    
  
 
   
  

 

 

laa ras a0 moat 3g9 Se soll
He eH? Be Re gt

8M WR BS ate a Pig
fost tou do seat i7tl anho ais asl (Slala Gelc/™|

 

 

[SP HEWERTS) MAY, a7]
By Vena] Men. Satie
fa | Tay Decl —| Tat | ee
[Pes Pes Nodes
thssd 2549] 1, aNzsioneil’ ytiomasl ££
thesg are sagsaiaredenatgna BEN
10 id 92
Hi to 0 35 2 92 “aos WB 3810 oa,
H "| a8 Hs
Tir HE
131 bub
151 See ony
i eKE ory.
fe
aot OAV. oce. en.
bana a
at < Phiecpecwav
24 BY AES,
if
oak,

 

Her 2421239112018 ie
isi? fu ii sai IT
ir ope Sata aga ale
iat 2325 “aie
lar aias_ate
bar ‘p55
laa 4625 4716
paar Sas “oie
32 abo sir
eer 106277
Tae ame
2398 5310
bar Be ‘8
lsat 121 2020
pose is 330
slat san _ioat

      

Tare Quanta ay 7, Ob Ibm Be. Pm

73


74 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

‘Tokyo, Japan

May 15th, 1942
36N 140 B

 

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 5

 

Berlin, Germany

May 15th, 1942
52N13E

 

Most planets past MC and in decline; implies that several years of
increasing problems soon will begi :

‘Leadership (10th) ruler in 7th reflects most attention to foreign af-
fairs; attention to resources (4th), propaganda (3rd) and national mo-
rale (5th). Dictatorial policies (Pluto) past zenith but continues popular
(trine Venus).

Pluto (dictatorship) on Asc (people) trine Venus at MC, marks prob-
able peak of success and power, but the sequence may not be grasped
quickly due to the concentration in the 11th house.

‘Neptune in 3rd (propaganda) fools the people successfully and they
have a sense of well-being (Node in 2nd) (money).


76 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 7

   

Washington, D. C. London, England

‘May 15th, 1942
39N 77 W

a May 15th, 1942
52NOE

 

 

 

 

Most positions below horizon but rising; conjunction of Uranus All positions at the East and rising; the heavy concentration in the
Saturn; receding conjunction of Jupiter; Node exactly square 9° Gemini Lith house reflects concentrated efforts in a dogged and aggressive na-
Mars, ruler of Asc (the people) at cusp of 4th: a major low point. Major tional attitude (Mars rising in Asc (people) trine Venus near MC (love
tow in morale and values—a bullish index with Jupiter nearing 26° for leaders). Saturn Uranus conjunction reflects confidence and ai
from Saturn, from 7th (foreign) and 8th (foreign resources).

   

 

 


8 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Millions of dollars in manhours have been used to collect statistics,
catalogue them and then run them through computers to try to define
the cycles of business and its many facets. The result is a maze of data.
‘There are the 41 to 43 month cycles, the 44 year, 9 year, 10 years, 18,
year or three times the 18 year for a 54 year affair. All of them are
averages but acceptable by mathematical standards. For example, they
locate several cycles of varying length which when averaged come to
nine years although none of the cycles were precisely nine years dura-
tion but anywhere between perhaps 7 and 12 years long. So 9 years
becomes @ measure and the thing never meets anticipations. Back to
collecting data they go. The real core is apparent in the cycle of the
Node,

But to get back to our May 1942 Washington figure. Here we have
a beautiful low point for conclusions on which to make some market
estimates. First, there are major signs of a low ebb in national confidence
and prospects of a revival. Prices are much depressed and what might be
termed over-sold. But the action of the Node is the lead-off. After the
squere from Virgo to 9° of Gemini there is nothing until 1946 to halt
an uptrend. Additional evidence is as follows.

Adverse or negative aspects between Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus
depress, in one form or another, business activity and markets. A con-
junction involving Saturn is notably severe. Such an event occurred
when Jupiter was conjunct Saturn early in 1941 and then the Saturn
Uranus conjunction in 1942. Relief from these depressing factors began
to wane (angle relationships widened) as soon as the conjunctions be-
came completed. Late in May 1942 Jupiter was approaching 26° away
from Saturn, a bullish index, with little of bearish importance until
90° difference between Jupiter and Saturn appears. It occurs May Sth,
1046, which approximates the high in markets since 1942. From early
1946, factors were sustaining but not bullish until 1949, ete.

We could proceed and get into Ingress and Lunation charts, the
part of Parallels and the details of interpretive method. It would soon
tangle our goal of a perspective of market estimates. In our “over-
simplified” method of cycle interpretation we keep everything as simple
as possible and confine it to the following:

First, scanning the ephemeris positions for the period involved to
note the interaction of Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter and the Node. Then we
translate the positions into Sign-House and House-Sign notes. We can
stop there and record when interaction occurs at critical angles of
favorable and unfavorable aspects. (Favorable are those in the triology;
unfavorable in the quadrature as already detailed). Then a trend pros-
pect can be concluded.

Like statistical cycles reported these days about business, all agree
they exist but the timing is something else. Every week in astro-cycles
differs from any other week in history. Each week, each month and
each year has to be plotted by itself. One thing that pushes the statisti-
cian up the wall is the apparent ‘retrograde’ pattern of a planet; it seems
to go backward in its course and then go forward again. Sure, Jupiter

COMBINING SIGN-HOUSES WITH HOUSE-SIGNS 79

makes its complete cycle in 12 years but one year it seems to bounce
back and forth and then suddenly it goes ahead on course. In most
cases a planet in retrograde has a reduced potency; the things it signifies
seem to stick to routine.

It really does not disturb the situation except we simply are unable
to can it, or tape or simplify the rules for cold storage use. We become
like the chap who asked a world famous physician why, after all the
expensive tests undeniably proved that a certain patient could not sur-
vive more than a few weeks the patient was alive and apparently vig-
orous after ten years. The physician is supposed to have replied: “Let's
give thanks for what we know and not be over-disturbed over what we
do not know.”

As familiarity with these factors emerges and facility in their use
develops the goals of confidence and profits will follow. It may be a
cliche but ‘knowledge is power’ and in terms of markets, whether stocks,

bonds or commodities, knowledge can be profits, security and peace of


CHAPTER THIRTEEN

PLANETARY ASPECTS
OR ANGULAR RELATIONSHIPS

For ease of interpretation the solar system is charted in a 360° circle
divided into 12 sections called houses with the noon position the Mid-
heaven and 10th house segment, and eastern (left) horizon the as-
cendant and the Ist house.

The angles or aspects between planets are divided into numerous
divisions but in general the most useful are the fourths or squares, the
ttiology or trines and the fifths or quintiles. The squares in general are
classed as bearish, unfavorable and activating. The trines are bullish,
favorable, serene, constructive and the expansion urge.

‘The fifths or quintiles are generally ignored, but in mundane work
covering markets and economic affairs they are very significant. Trend
reversals usually are lost in the trine and the squares but are timed by
the fifths. At the right a 360° circle has five divisions of 72° each.
Visualize also 10 divisions of 36° each and 20 divisions of 18° each; all
useful.

 

Often, to keep data clarified, it is well to consider waxing and waning
aspects; as the angular relationship narrows it is waxing; as it widens it
is waning. For example a waxing trine is labeled 120° while a waning
trine is labeled 240°.

Keep in mind the square group of aspects, the 2244°, the 45°, 90°,
135°, 180°, The trines relate to 15°, 30°, 60°, 120°, etc, but note 135°
relates to 45° also. Apparent contradiction is adjusted by noting the

 

PLANETARY ASPECTS OR ANGULAR RELATIONSHIPS 81

nature of the planets involved; a benefic such as Jupiter and Venus
would have an aspect of the bullish tendencies.

‘The fifths or quintiles relate to 18°, 36°, 54°, 72°, etc. But quintiles
often are turning or resolving areas. An upward market trend marked
by a trine aspect situation which is waning comes to a quintile aspect

(the trine changes to quintile) and a decline appears; if followed by a
waxing square type of aspect declining or bearish trends are confirmed.

‘The rule continues to keep it simple; in general stay with the potent
aspects of the three groups and avoid trying to include every minor
aspect.

 


CHAPTER FOURTEEN

FORMATION OF A MARKET
FORECAST

In the preceding chapter we attempted to work into a perspective
of prevailing moods, opinions and circumstances dominant in a country
at a specific time. By expanding the data we should be able to uncover
something tangible to form some estimates of market trend probabilities.

The “over"-simplified method of planetary houses and_sign-houses
is expanded slightly by placing the positions in a locality chart or
figure. As an initial example one day is examined for its local reaction
in three widely separated localities, viz, Kansas City, New York City and
the Philippines. (See the charts and comments on the next page).

To follow, the next example presents six charts set up for crucial
market points from 1956 to 1970 inclusive. Notes appended each
chart, if examined with bar charts of the stock market, such as the
Industrials, for these years discussed, will aid in grasping the relation-
ships,

Let us briefly recapitulate the step by step program of defining astro-
cycles and then applying them as a basis of interpretation in estimating
probable speculative market trends.

 

(A) We become familiar with planets in their natural house-
signs and then sign-houses (see charts pages 59 and 60).

(B) The zodiac is divided into 12 divisions or houses and we
become familiar with each house meaning (page 39).

(C) Geographical locality computing is learned (the complica-
tions of Ingresses, lunations, etc, are avoided).

(D) We synthesize planets in house locations and use sign ruler-
ship (see page 59) as in Horary methods for general estimates of a
chart.

(E) Then natural house signs, plus sign-house interpretation,
are added to consideration of rulerships and the planetary powers
for detailed data,

(F) Keep in mind specific angular relationships of Jupiter,
Saturn and Uranus are the key to stocks in the plus or minus,
bullish or bearish, critical degrees noted in the text. Each com-
modity has its own combination of one or two of the foregoing plus
either Mercury, or Venus, or Mars.

 

August 18th, 1976. The planetary positions are for Noon GMT from
Raphael’s Ephemeris for 1976. A Table of Houses (readily available
is published by The Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside, California, 318
pp. $4.50, for Latitude 1 to 66 degrees) gives the house cusps. From the
Locality Maps on pages 8 and 9 and the latitude and longitude of each
location compute the 10th House (MC) figure according to the direc-
tions on page 7.

 

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 83

It is suggested that a series of dates are selected, such as major highs
and lows of markets, and charts like these set up. It will develop facility
in interpretation, For stocks use New York; for wheat, corn, etc, use
Chicago, ete, Primary attention should be directed to Uranus, Saturn and
Jupiter.

New York, N.Y.

41N71W
August 18th, 1976

 

 

Outlook for stock market after Reblican Nat'l Convention today.

Uranus square Saturn (ruling the 10 and 11th) reflects doubts over
business outlook. Saturn and Jupiter, with Jupiter now out of Gemini
into Taurus, approach 72° which is a bearish point.

Stocks are bearish.


84 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Kansas City, Mo.

 

39N95 W
August 18th, 1976

 

 

 

Nomination of a Republican for President. Unusually successful
money, publicity and entertainment affair for the locality (ruler of 10th
in 2nd and Moon 2nd ruling Sth). Two planets on Desc. and two fac-
tions. Ruler of 11th (incumbent) trine Neptune in Sth retrograde ruling
1st (confused public situation).

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 85

South Mindanao, Philippines

7.N 124E.
August 18th, 1976

Rao

 

Same time as Natl Republican Convention; Earthquake and tidal
wave with upwards of 20,000 homeless.

‘Uranus, ruler of 4th on Asc. square Saturn in 10th at MC which is
square eclipse point of April 20th, 1976 on Descendant at 9° Taurus
which is opposition Asc. and Uranus.


86 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

Here are some examples for study. Check with a market chart of
stocks for 75 years, for example. After the rise from a 1949 low the
Averages reached 741 on the Industrials in 1962 and then declined to
525. Subsequently was a rise to 1001 late in 1965 and a decline in
1966 to 736.

In 1956, after a steep rise from 1953, the Industrials wavered at 524.
In 1956 and 1957 they formed a triple high; thus the wavering cyclic
figures of January and May 1956 which are appended.

But the factors prevented confusion over prospects and patience was
the only need. It is the Node and the interaction (angles) between
Jupiter and Saturn and then Uranus with both of them which gives us
our basic keys. Keep it simple is the rule; rule breakers will not listen so
they will tangle with Parallels, then add Venus, Mars and Mercury in
the search for the absolutes which in reality do not exist

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 87

New York City

 

41N 74W
January 15, 1956

 

15

Here Saturn is square Jupiter—very bearish usually but here the
square is brief and Jupiter is apparent retrograde weakening it.

‘Trine to Uranus also weak as Uranus is retrograde. Then the Node is
not at a critical point. Indication: probable peak in the offing, but not
now.


88 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION
New York City

41N71W
March 6th, 1962

 

Bearish data first half of year with Jupiter Saturn at 18° (bearish)
Mars conjunct Jupiter opposition Uranus. Pluto square the Gemini

int 7°-9°. Downside initial objective Node sextile 9° Gemini in late
July and then September Jupiter Saturn of bullish 27° point. Nothing
Significant to deter uptrend maturing until August 1968 with Node 9°

 

 

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 89

New York City

4INT1W
May Ist, 1956

 

 

Node has reached opposition to 9° Gemini, a market top index.

Neptune square Uranus heavy distribution; confusion over 11th and
‘7th house public policies.

‘Nothing bullish. Look for downside confirmation at Jupiter-Saturn
72° point in mid-July. Probable low November 1957 when Node
reaches 150° to 9° Gemini point and September Jupiter Saturn sextile
confirmed.


90 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

‘These examples of market trends from late in 1968 through 1971
indicate cyclic data was correct, and economic opinion, professional
judgment and ‘insider’ confidence were all wrong. It was a classic rout
of the conglomerate craze, the pyramiding of growth stocks, and bloody
nosing the wonder kids and their new fresh-from-graduate-school eco-

Actually it was perhaps the sadest and ruinous time for the new
generation of ‘investors’ convinced in the ease of a fast buck. In reality
it was 1929 in collapsed situations again, but instead of the debt of
‘margin calls which could not be met, this collapse erased the buying
capital of thousands, but who hold their certificates today hoping the
improbable will occur and they may “get even.”

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 1

New York City

4IN71W
Nov 24th, 1968

 

 

‘Transport Average has a new high but the Industrials failed by 6
Points and technical weakness expands, Jupiter near conjunct Uramus
with both opposed by Saturn, a major bearish index.

Saturn, ruling 10th, in the Asc, with Neptune ruling 12th in 7th-
inherent decline of national confidence over leadership in foreign pol
cies.

  


92 ASTRO-ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION

 

New York City

 

 

41N71W
January Ist, 1970

 

Sept 1969 rally under Jupiter-Saturn 150° now exhausted with bear-
ish Jupiter-Saturn 180°—rejection of foreign affairs due to Jupiter in
‘7th ruling 8th and 9th, opposed by Saturn in 2nd (money) ruling 10th
(leadership policies).

Technical structure very weak and nothing bullish until Node reaches
9° in late April 1970.

FORMATION OF A MARKET FORECAST 93

 

New York City

aN 71W
April 28th, 1970

 

5

Node at 9° Pisces in square to Geminin 9° critical point; due is an
important low. Industrials have declined 368 points, more than 30%,
since late in 1968. Technical rebound would carry to March 24th, 1971
for 162° Jupiter Saturn with Jupiter stationery. Such a pattern would
offer a low in early November 1971 with Node at 9° Aquarius, trine to
Gemini 9°.


Section III

MARKET CHARTS

A CORRELATION OF
THE GEOMETRICAL METHOD

A simplified scientific procedure of charting the

    

ing pri
‘with eyelical and technical factr

 

Copyright 1938, 1961, & 1978 by L. J. Jensen
All rights reverved


FOREWORD

‘The charting fundamentals and their applications presented in this,
section originally were published by the author in the book “MARKET
CHARTS—A Correlation of the Geometrical Method” copyright 1934,
and for many years out of print. This new edition continues virtually
unchanged except for an added number of working examples to il-
lustrate workaday applications.

‘More than fifty years have elapsed since I first began to delve into
possible clues to panics and booms plus the never-ending constant price
changes in markets for stocks and commodities in particular. That
study brought intensive research in the late 1920's and became profes-
sional advisory services until retirement in 1971. Advertising was never
used as the ciientele developed from readers of several national publi-
cations to which I was a regular contributor from 1933 to 1957 when I
assumed full time effort as analyst for a Stock Exchange organization.

Intrusion of the biographical comment is to underscore that fifty
years of market efforts which contained some forty years of first hand
relations with people and organizations in markets produced experi-
ence. Again and again many of the finest people sought me out for
suggestions in trading and investment procedure. Too many times ma
et profits and their successful interpretation of market potentials had
turned sour. In a few instances the lessons were accepted, studied and
then, following the basic factors devoid of the ‘fear and greed’ emotions,
success became realized.

Human perception is blunted when too many trees block a view of
the forest. Tape watching, hanging over the news ticker, or carefully
scrutinizing orders being written by @ broker interspersed with shouts:
“the floor is selling so-and-so,” “Cargill is buying wheat,” or “A big extra
is about to be announced by such-and-such company,” are suicidal. All
fa successful trader needs from a broker is confirmation of buying and
selling orders, and refusal to let the broker say more than to give quotes
in order to satisfy his feeling of continuing your good-will. Yes, stated
bluntly, be student enough to make your decisions without any com-
‘ment from anyone; if in doubt do not make the commitment.

‘The axiom is that a little knowledge can be a dangerous thing, which
might be paraphrased to the concept that a little market success can
make a dunce out of a potential investor. Often a person checks market
fluctuations in newspapers, chart books or simply conversations with
others. Daily ranges of prices become potential gold mines, or a 50%
or more gain in the price of a stock over a period of weeks begins to
form the might-have-been profit. With some extra funds available some
ideas are gathered, or a ‘hot+tp’ is followed. Success in the form of a
{good profit accrues. Now is the time to jump in again, usually in a larger
transaction. The project works nicely. But this time no grabbing a fair

 

 

 

 

 


a MARKET CHARTS

 

profit; ‘inside’ information says the commitment will double, or triple,
or produce even greater gain. This person often hangs on too long:
then a reaction develops. Instead of getting out, the promise to get out
when a rally appears is substituted. ‘The rally fails or falls short and
profits are eroded until all the commitment is in loss. In a stock the
result is a candidate for wall-paper; in a commodity the option expires
and a sale is mandatory unless delivery is accepted which is something
else.

Profitable speculation and investment in securities, or, in grain fu-
tures, is principally dependent on how comprehensive a grasp the opera-
tor has of the technical factors at work within the markets, All the luck
in the world never took the place of astute technical knowledge, plus
the ability to apply it. Without technical knowledge, in greater or lesser
degree, the market operator is only a gambler naively “playing the mar-
ket”; when, in consideration of the stakes involved, a small amount of
study would enable him to become an intelligent speculator.

With minor exceptions, all markets operate under basic natural laws
which govern supply and demand. A rhythmic ebb and flow is always
perceptible in the movements of prices. It is by gauging this motion that
the state of supply and demand is interpreted.

"The purpose of this brochure is to present methods of interpreting the
important technical factors operating in markets. The method of ap-
proach and the manner of application coincides, and is a part of, those
ancient laws which form the foundation of modern science. They have
not, to my knowledge, ever been applied in this somewhat unique
manner to the charted movements of market prices. But, although the
application may seem new and much of the method of co-ordination
original, the entire foundation is as old as mathematics and philosophy.

At first inspection, the methods of procedure are likely to seem diffi-
cult to apply readily. Invariably this is the situation whenever a new
subject is first approached. However, I am confident that with a little
application anyone interested in markets will be gratified with the
results encountered.

‘All those who ate interested in markets, whether as a vocation, or
avocation, cannot spend long periods of time, or invest considerable
money, for extensive economic research and study. Therefore the eco-
nomic specialist and the economic service organizations. An automobile
‘owner need not be an expert mechanic simply because he drives his car;
but, some knowledge of motor mechanics, together with a road map,
contributes to the success of any journey. So it is with market opera-
tions: anyone with any market interests, large or small, always finds the
relatively small time and trouble it takes to keep several market charts
‘an investment that pays large profits in both money and a better sense
of confidence. With greater confidence comes power and the initiative
ability for decisive, profitable action,

In the majority of instances commodity commitments are shunned.
‘When more money becomes available commitments in another stock or
a variety of stocks occurs which becomes a ‘portfolio’ when in reality a
mixed bunch of stocks are carried in Street name in an account. In

 

 

MARKET CHARTS 99

the course of years some become ‘winners’ and others ‘losers’; an avoca-
tion develops in a daily reading of the market page quotations.

‘Any person with the intention of finding a means of earning several
thousands of dollars a year as self-employed, or as an avocation, makes
careful preparation for the choice and then the operating know-how.
The smallest sort of retailing operation requires many elements to be-
come successful. The Small Business Administration, which often plans
and assists new business formations, reports four out of five fail in five
years. But emotionally anyone with interest in markets and a bit of
money believes winning is inevitable. If there is one salient and primary
fact to obey constantly, without the slightest deviation, and follow-
through with patience, it is to:

graph the statistics of market action according to the means of
estimating time and price in daily and weekly price ranges. The
geometrical rules presented in the text cannot be compromised at

all And adhere strictly to the market action revealed in the graphs,

Years ago a longtime client revealed he had been a floor trader on
the Chicego Board of Trade for many years, Forced to retire due to
health problems he requested an addres change to reach him ata smal
village near Hudson's Bay in Norther Canada, A year or se later he
reported intensive study ofthis graph method had intrigued him thet he
was experimenting with 5 M bushels, mailing orders to Chicago by
regular mail, which sometimes took ten days for delivery. He sad he
fete he was groping inthe dark but handled it by stoplows orders selected
from trend channels of the charts from the daily ranges picked up from
several radio stations with market news broadeasta Ht was a few years
later he called on me to relate his loses, sing the stops religiously, had
been minimal while same very handsome prs had been rete by
acting on the potential swings and timing. This example len

sugges es Thave Gone many ines: nt Ta S™ample leads me to

 

Invest your time in serious study and see

ve serious study and see you grasp how the appli-
cation of mathematical elements exhibits market activity. Only
then venture commitments and your capital, based only on con-
clusions drawn from your judgment.

You may feel these comments are rath i
ents are rather presumptuous and naive
enough to imply you do not know better. Frankly, more than forty
Years of experience have proven sich reaction ares ibtake, The more
capital you may venture the grester the havard if you cast them aside
and ignore them. * ae :
ike a natitcal chart ids the navigators at sea to maintain obj

m navigators at sea to maintain objectives
and positions, market charts are of tremendous value in all ‘market
transactions. Market charts are a graphic statistical view of price move,
ments in the market, sometimes from hour to Roun, someninies row
day to day, week to weeks, month to month, and even'a view of yeas to
year,

 


100 MARKET CHARTS

‘The problem of market activity is, in the final practical analysis, that
of prices. To profit we must buy lower than we sell. It is trite to point
out that a $100 stock is a bargain if it is about to move higher, while
$2 stock is expensive if it is about to go down. But, most people realize
the greatest urge to buy just before a high is reached, The reason for
this psychology is obvious. But its basis lies in the lack of a grasp of
much of the technical perspective of the market itself,

So muich material has been published on the importance of the eco-
nomic market charts during the last several years that market students
no longer view charts lightly. Yet, of all the methods I have examined
and used the geometrical approach is the only form that enables the
student to co-ordinate the fundamental laws of supply and demand, the
the element of time, the problem of resistance and objective and the
basis of price, with the astro-economic cyclical factors.

Tam particularly indebted to my partner, Mr George E. Liggett, for
tthe basic practical application of the geometrical method to the problem
of market trends. His first application of phases of the method was used
in grain markets over a decade ago. These basic ideas were later
amplified and expanded by our associate, Mr Virgil Moore, now de-
ceased. Best known at The Moon Man in the grain markets, Virgil
Moore's phenomenal forecasts will be long remembered. His interpreta-
tion of markets was based almost entirely on the various phases of the
geometrical method of charting.

The material which follows warrants careful study. Each phase of the
discussion is part of an ultimate whole. It is suggested:—that the
material is first read through carefully, without any attempt to apply the
principles laid down. Then a general perspective will be attained, which,
on second reading, will afford a quicker grasp of every step. Then apply
the method to a chart of current interest. With practice will come
facility, and as facility develops the many combinations and possibilities
of this method will be found.

 

  

CHAPTER ONE

GEOMETRICAL FUNDAMENTALS

The increasing use of charts, as a concise visual record of the fluctu-
ations of grain and security market prices, indicates their decided value
in speculative and investment operations. Particularly since the crash in
1929, a comprehensive grasp of the technical factors operating within
markets is recognized to be of importance, and in many ways supersede
such items as company earnings, overhead, fixed charges, credit and
indebtedness. Statistical items bear on problems of market prices, but
markets boom and crash before such news is available. Market charts
usually signal important changes. They are keys to the factors of supply
and demand which operate in every market. Market technicalities, as
registered on charts, take first place in all forms of market interpretation.

Over recent years, a great deal of material has been published on
methods of charting market statistics. Much of the material is of great
value; but, principally to illustrate the record of the past or to estimate
current technical conditions. Very little of the material is of the slightest
use in forecasting. But, as the means of “half a loaf” of observational
material is better than none, so even a meager chart is better than none.

The idea that all markets operate according to the natural laws of
supply and demand, in a rhythmic ebb and flow of price changes, is
rather difficult to grasp at first glance. It is simpler to take the view
that all prices are either “put up” or “pushed down” by several, or one,
“insiders.” But, like most half truths, such a premise simply distorts a
true grasp of markets. Prices are and have been “rigged,” but no
“tigger” or pool met success bucking the general trend. Markets move
in waves, ofttimes against the wishes of the majority or in spite of every
human effort to reverse the trend. The explanation of this condition
lies in those natural laws which are related, and are a part of, the
cyclical movements of mass psychology.

It is in an examination of these natural cycles that both individual
investors and speculators, and the managers of large funds can locate
the key to the many inexplicable market trends. Anything that is as
Prosaic and practical as markets might appear to have little in common
with ancient philosophy, but market trends are simply an exact reflection
of the total hopes, fears and desires of great masses of people. Markets
are a part of living and so is philosophy.

Lack of space prevents an examination of the philosophical and psy-
chological backgrounds of markets. It is necessary, however, so as to
clarify phases of the geometrical method of charting, to refer to some
of the fundamental data,

Practically all modern “discoveries” are new applications, and new
variations, of things which have gone before. The extraordinary de-
velopments in modern atomic and electronic science were bequeathed
to us from ancient times. The observations of Thales of Miletus in

 

 


aa MARKET CHARTS

about 600 B.c, the work of Democritus in Ancient Greece, and Leucretius
in Ancient Rome, forms much basis for mathematical science in modem
times, Euclid, the father of geometry, and Pythagoras, who is credited
with raising mathematics to a science, presented tenets and observations
which have never been refuted down through centuries of research and
observation, Modern physics continues to view the principles of
Democritus as basic. As Tyndall quotes them, they are the foundation
‘of modern scientific thought. One principle is that “nothing happens by
chance. Every occurrence has its cause from which it follows by neces-
sity.”

Kepler's doctrine of the concurrence of parallels at a single point at
infinity, and his principle of continuity in relation to the infinitely great,
relates to all geometrical figures. This thesis, as applied to natural law,
‘was amplified by Descartes and Newton. There is no reason why charts
of market statistics, if drawn according to geometrical design, cannot
be another application of these premises.

A Pythagorean proposition is that all things consist of three—the
trinity of proportions, or the arithmetical, geometrical and the harmoni-
cal. In market terms this is a clue to the relationship which exists be-
tween the angle of lift in charted prices; the prices, and the extent, or
time of market activity in days, weeks, months, etc.

Pythagoras taught further that there is a numerical relation in all
phenomena: the harmonic intervals of numbers with sounds; the rela-
tionship that the square of the hypotenuse, in a right handed triangle,
is equal to the sum of the squares on the other two sides; and more im-
Portant, that angles of a sphere have specifically corresponding numbers,
Which are sensitive to those angles in space, infinity and time. ‘The lift
of charted prices does coincide with numbers at specific points in space,
corresponding to price and time. In these observations is the entire basis
of geometrical charts.

 

 

CHAPTER TWO

FIRST STEPS IN CHARTING

Sess a Pasties eneer tao an tassnce
Hed prompt hen ee peyh cei
eee oe uaa lance ltt tern he leet of
aaa eas econ a
Se eae acne cere
Soren ca ence
ergata he say MIC at hee mt eon
ae re ces fe ee eae eee
ier ur fest Eh ie red re, Aes gery wa
er epee
the 28 day cycle of the Moon around the Earth, and the cycles of the
planets around the Sun. The circle, or cycle, was the basis of geometry;
fn lines emanating fom the a of cele, andthe matiosp of
Ts Soi le, are the first tools of geometry.
The 360° of a complete circle contain several cardinal, and many
ise 26a commis de ceualn suet col, and many
ee ee aaa ae eee ae tae
ee en ee ee ee Oat

  

 

90°

180°, oe

 

270°


104 MARKET CHARTS

the four seasons of the year. A cross divides a circle into four equal
parts, each part 90° or one half of 180° and a quarter of 360°. This 90°
angle is the “square” unit, or the symbol of the meeting of force and re-
Sistance. Two 90° angles are the equal of 180°, or, the symbol of op-
position and alternative. The point of 0° is always the beginning or
place of origin, and the positive pole, while 180° is the negative pole; one
is Self and the other Not-Self, the start and the finish, the top and th
bottom. All degrees which divide 90 equally are related to “resistance:

‘There is another set of major critical points within a circle; from the
major triangles. Where the first division was one of quarters or 90°
angles, the second division is of 120° angles or thirds. These two di-
visions form the basis of all angles and division, of not only circles, but of

  

 

120° Os

240°

any unit, viz, % %4 Ys hoy ete are all harmonical divisions of 90°,
while 14, 3%" Yf ete, are the harmonical divisions of 120°. The 120°
angles, and their harmonical divisions, relate to co-ordination, harmony
and balance. ‘They are not only unifying but bring adjustment which
Felates to the ideal, So in zodiacal sign relationships the major triangles,
oF trines, tie earth to earth, air to air, ire to fire and water to water. In
fmarleet charts, these units mark areas of market adjustment or areas and
periods of consolidation in time and price.

‘The co-ordination of nature with these basic angles shows up in a
variety of ways, Under microscopic examination molecules of copper,
Iron and quarts follow the major angles. Snowflakes, in myriads of major
angle forme, illustrate the major angles. One twelfth of a year is one
fmonth; one twenty fourth of a day is one hour; one hour-sixty minutes:
all are divisions of the trine, or 120° angle. Similar connection with the
Ghuare or 90° angle can be noted. As Laotze said, everything exists for a

FIRST STEPS IN CHARTING 105

Purpose, and the virtue of everything is in its use; which can include
geometry and market charts.

‘The sketch below illustrates the necessity for a market chart unit
of time—days, months, etc—always being equal to the unit of price—
one dollar or one cent. There is balance when A-B is equal to C-D. If
A-Bis one unit of price then C-D must be one unit of time. There is an
immediate unbalance if A-B is one unit and C-D is three, or five, or ten
units of measure. Most important rule of geometrical charting—that the
arithmetical unit of measuring time and price shall always be identical.

Lack of space makes it impossible to offer illustrations why it is also
necessary to show every unit of calendar time on all charts, instead of
following the popular practice of simply indicating market days. Usually

ie

 

 

 

 

 

 

D

chartsts provide no space for Sundays and those intervals wh
jor Sundays and those intervals when the
markets are closed. Yet the student of economic cycles realizes that Sun.
a and ee may halt the completion of such economic transac-

ions as market tumover, but they do not halt a cycle of time. The forces
which result in market statistics are operative 7 days a week and 24
hours a day. Forces behind the movement of money are not halted be-
cause most of the banks of the country are closed a large part of each
24 hours. So itis with market forces, they operate constantly. So charts
‘ust show calendar time, not market ime.

i preparing charts it does not matter what unit of measure may
selected ota longa it flowed thoughout the chart Use any type
of paper from the 20 by 20 squares to the inch to the 1 by 1 square to the
sos ‘The only point is to maintain a balance of units, eceeteneees

or general purposes the readily available graph paper of
squares to the inch is convenient to handle for gran futures, socks ond


106 MARKET CHARTS

‘Averages. In grain charts use one unit to indicate one cent, and one
equal unit to indicate time which willbe a day, a week; month, fr yeat
depending on the type of chart. On the 8 by 8 paper ¥4 inch will present
one cent on the vertical scale, and % inch will mark a unit of time of the
horizontal scale.

In security price charts ¥4 inch should represent one dollar on the
vertical scale, and ¥% inch represent one unit of time on the horizontal
scale.

It is profitable to carry charts on the daily, weekly, monthly & yearly
range of prices of every stock or grain option in which there is any in-
terest. For most purposes, however, the charts can be limited to one
daily and one weekly, Do not load up with a great number of charts.
One hour of interpretation is better than ten hours of marking up high,
ow and close statistics. Enter the calendar days—or weeks—across the
top from left to right, and the price range in the left hand margin from
bottom to top. Begin all charts from the last major high or low. A space
to provide for volume should be provided along the bottom of each chart.

CHAPTER THREE

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND

After a set of daily and weekly charts has been laid out, with a range
started from either the last major high or major low, the next step is to
enter the major angles. We want to estimate all the probable elements
of the present and future price range, resistances, and price and time ob-
jectives. For illustrative purposes let us begin at the last major low. This
low is, geometrically, the axis or center of a circle. However, price ac-
tivity on a chart moves upward and to the right of the axis, so we can
only use 90° or one quarter of the circle, illustrated in the sketch below.
From point A a line is drawn to equal and parallel F-B, and then the

 

 

 

 

 

‘angle AEB is entered so as to duplicate AFB, and form the base figure
for our chart form. The extension on CD is the result. Literally, C is the
same as F—the axis of the circle and the point of the major chart low
(when inverted, it is the major high).

According to the Pythagorean observation the degree units (angles)
of a circle have numerical co-ordinates which are harmonical. In this
instance the 90° from A to B represents 90 units of measure from A to
F, F toB, B to E, etc. And it follows that the extended square on base
line C-D must also be measured by 90 units on each of its sides. This
square of 90 is our base unit in all market charts, except with minor ex.
ceptions in the daily.

On the opposite page are two sketches which illustrate the important
angles of a circle and also the 90° segment. One indicates the manner in


108 MARKET CHARTS

90 and 45 appear in both groups, indicating they are doubly strong.
aa ott Saat Se ee

 

 

axial highs or lows. In time measure all harmonical points of 90, or from
0 to 360, represent days, weeks or months of resistance, from a major
high or low. This coincides with the 88, 44 and 22 day cycles of Mercury,
viz, 90, 45 and 22%, ete. :

In other words, in measuring time count from a major hi or low in
calendar days, weeks or months for critical areas in time. :

Tere ecats hurmonical with the trines also mark important areas in
time and price, but the levels they indicate are related to that type of
market action that accompanies periods of adjustment or consolidation.
‘The critical points of the two groups—square and trine—operate from
0, and also from any begoning: Viz, a major Tow at 11 ‘would locate the
45 point at 56 (11 plus 45) and not 45.

Fo iteide up the approximate 365 day cycle ofthe Sun
which marks 1 year.

“The application of these critical points is now used in entering the

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 109

lines from axial tops and bottoms in the square of 90. (See Plate 1 on
the opposite page). The sensitive degree points are tabulated on the
top and side margin of the graph. The lines from point X, the axial
center, and also our theoretical low point, form angles which are not
measured on the circumference 0-0, but on the sides 0-90, and 90-0.
‘This is our foundation, a complete unit which is to be applied to every
low, and inverted, to every high on our charts,

‘The strongest angle is 90°, coinciding with the vertical line of X to the
top 0. The next strongest is the 45° angle, formed from the lower 0 to
90, or the line of 90. Points E and E are also 45, and are points of the

 

 

 

270°

square within the square. As all the lines from the axis X are followed
note how cross lines coincide with critical degree points. X-D is the 30
point line (measured across the top). On the circumference 0-0 is an
angle of 71¥%°. Note the minor resistance at 334% points, and the major
resistance at 67%, on the graph. In time (from left to right) these points
are 11% days or weeks, and 2213. So it can be readily observed that the
Pythagorean postulate proves out: that there is a harmonical relation-
ship between angles and numbers, which, in terms of market charts, ties
up the “lift” of the price structure with time and resistance.

In order to avoid the inconvenient and cumbersome necessity of enter-
ig the full square of 90 at every important top and bottom that ma-
terializes on our charts, a precision detail colluloid protractor is used and
the critical points translated into angles by means of those tables which
are entered at the bottom of Plate 1. Most drawing and draftsmen sup-
ply dealers stock them,

 


110 MARKET CHARTS RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND un

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1020 30 4050 40 70-80-90 @_ 10 20 30 40 50607080 gg
- 90 Pate | al T
(as 4d flog NS ~ 4 i 8s
= £Z —eo — usstecwecay + $ 80
uy I932toMARCH TGs | 12
6 }-—P fom 4 78
70
2 6
aA hs eo
a 76
1A {so
66
£
NZ S| 40
56
i 30
| D 2
3
- a4 20 Bas
<*thio Ex
al
A-~July'32 low 4—Horizontal from low C
Top of Graph to Right Right Margin Upward B—Sept’32 high 5 Horizontal from high D
X-A 5% spaces 86%4° X-A S¥pspaces 334° C-Feb '33 low 6—71%° 30 spaces (7)
X-BUY * 82%" X-BUM% “7M D- July’33 high 7-90% onc
K-C2% * 75° X-c2% “ 15° E—Oct °33 low 8-45° on A
X-D30 «71%? X-D30 «18542 1 —Axis’32 low 9-45° on
X-E45  * 63%" X-E45 “(264° 2 -71%4° 30 spaces 10-18% 30 spaces (B)
X-F60 “56%? X-F60 «33% 3 Horizontal from top B 11~ 1834° 30 spaces (C)
X-G67™% “ 54%" X-G67% “ 37%" 12-63%%° 45 spaces (C)
Another method, which is even simpler after a little practice, is to use
the scale of measurement below. Count from the axis X upward, or to We can now enter the important lines on the weekly charts, For il-
the right, as the case may be. lustration note the weekly range chart of U. §, Steel Common on the
Vertical Scale (Right Margin) Horizontal Scale (Top Margin) opposite page (Plate 3). The first procedure was to align the axis, of the
5% spaces—I6 over 1up 35% spaces— lover 16up square of 90, to the low point of July 1932 at A. As soon as this is done
ny eg Wye 2g the price is tabulated in the left hand margin, and the major lines of 90,
AS HURL ASmn eae) ~*~ 2 «9 or 45° angles, are entered at 0, through the exact center at 1, and from
by « lie 4 Dy « 4 * 16« A to 90. Then the top and side points of 30 and 45 are entered. For
eg eeEAaee gncney Ta Papen eae re simplification all but the top 30 is deleted on this Plate 3. These lines
See SEEM 3 a ge illustrated that the major resistances in price were, on the upside, where
6 « 12 « BH o “8 * 26 the major Tines cross at 1, or $64 in price and 45 weeks in time, and, on
om * lie «ae 672) 12 * 16 « line 2 at 5144 (the top scale of 30 points added to the low of 21% at'A).


12 MARKET CHARTS

As the weekly range of prices rose along this line no other lines were
necessary until the September 1932 top at B.

‘As soon as the top was made the horizontal top line at 3 is entered.
‘Then the line 10 through Band 1 was drawn. Then a line parallel to 2 is
entered through 1, and the 45° angle down from B. Just as long as a
weekly or monthly range stays above the Tine of 90 it is bullish; and,
conversely, as long as the range travels under the line of downward 90 it
is bearish. ‘The line of 90 from B was not penetrated until the point of
convergence of vertical 7 and parallel 6 was reached at C. At C then, a
new base line 4 was drawn; line 11 is entered parallel to fine 10; and, the
line of 90 at 9 entered. This signalled that the weekly range holding
above line 11 was bullish & if it held above the 90 line 9 the objective
was; first, the high 10 line, and, a price within “orb” of point 1 or $64.
‘The high materialized at the high line point D, just under $68, in July
1933, Note:—line 12, drawn from C through D, strikes at 76 on the top
‘margin and scale, 44 points added to the February 1933 low at point C
are 67¥%2 and the July 1933 high on U. S. Steel.

Study Plate 3 carefully; and, with the material already discussed, set
up charts for ranges over the past. Facility in locating the manner in
which resistance points and objectives can be computed, in advance, will
soon develop. The more points of crossing at one week, or at one price,
the more important is that point. Always be generous with lines. Have
more than you need, rather than too few. Always carry all the major
lines from every important top and bottom. Begin with the line of 90,
or 45°, and when a line is entered above this major line always enter
line below, at the same degree point.

‘A great number of different combinations of angles and lines can be
applied to every chart. If the fundamentals already discussed have been
thoroughly grasped each combination can be worked out to a logical
conclusion.

Study the manner in which duplications recur on all charts, and how
when one square of 90 is completed the succeeding square will develop
duplications, not in exact prices but in geometrical form and reflected by
the price ranges. Note that parallelograms and forms of squares and
rectangles prove out, as complete moves of prices occur. A major ob-
jective can be anticipated by drawing lines from double and triple tops
and bottoms. When making such extensions run the 90 point line up-
ward from the first bottom, then the 45 top point line on the second bot-
tom, and if there is a third bottom, enter the 224% point (top) from it.
Where these lines converge will mark a major point of resistance in time
and price. Conversely, from tops, the lines go down.

Keep in mind that the sensitive angles coincide with critical points of
prices. For instance, ifa stock makes a major low of ten dollars per share
you can immediately outline its major and minor resistance points in
days, weeks and months, and in price. Simply take the major degrees
such as 15, 30, 45, 90, 105, 135, etc, and add to the major low; viz, 10
plus 15 equals 25, 45 and 10 equals §5, etc. Count the days and weeks
in the same manner.

    

 

  

RESISTANCE, OBJECTIVE AND TREND 113

In entering lines and angles on the charts always strive for geometrical
balance. When the 90 point line is drawn from a low, balance it with a
90 point line from a top and note where they cross. If a 90 point line,
or any other, is drawn from a bottom, parallel it by the same point line
UPWARD from the preceding top. The three sides of a parallelogram—
the two parallels for two sides and a line extending from the top to the
bottom—give clues to when and where a move in prices will be com-
pleted. In the same manner, watch for duplications in time and price in
the ends of the parallelogram. This “boxing” of the price range is very
effective to locate when a move is completed, and to aid in finding ob-
jectives and price levels. They are most effective on the weekly charts,
‘but should be looked for in the daily charts also.

Above all, recognize the necessity for flexibility in entering lines. Al-
ways be ready to apply variations of the basic rules.

 


CHAPTER FOUR

THE DAILY CHART

Where the weekly, monthly and yearly charts of market prices—all
set up according to the illustration used for the weekly chart of U. S.
Steel, in the preceding chapter—are the foundations for interpretation
of the major trends, probable tops and bottoms, plus points where turns
are probable, the daily chart gives a closer and more enlarged view of the
minor trend. In practice one is a supplement to the other; the weekly
and monthly charts indicating the long trend perspective, and the daily
charts the minor trends,

Plate 2 shows the daily range of the Dow Jones Industrials and the
Dow Jones Rails from January 1st, 1933 to September 29th, 1933. A
supplementary aid—a one point, Point and Figure chart of the Indus-
trials—is also included.

Note that the rule of one day for one dollar is followed. Also, every
calendar day occupies one unit—Sundays, holidays and, periods of
closed markets, are all shown. The square of 90 and the line of 90 are
not used, except in the minor trends. In the daily charts we confine our-
selves to actual trend lines on the highs and lows

The tops A and B are the horizontal base lines. Until those lines were
broken at C the market was not in a bullish trend; as, even though
strong implications had developed on the weekly and monthly charts,
the confirmation on the daily chart was not complete. Then when A and
B were penetrated, base lines were entered across preceding lows shown
at 1 and 2. Note how these bottom or low lines held through the re-
peated attacks in prices at 3, 4, 5, and 6 on both Averages, indicating
that the trend was fundamentally bullish up until the apex of the major
triangulation, D-E-3, was broken out of at E.

On the intermediate trend of the Industrials, from C, through D, count
the days in terms of our observations of critical points, viz, 5%, 7Y,
11¥4, 15, ete. As soon as the 90 point and day passed, resistance became
increasingly heavy. On the major point of 105, or day, an important high
was made. Then go back and count the days from the time the resistance
across A and B was broken at C, and apply the same critical points. The
top in prices occurred on the 90th day following the breakout at C.
Apply this principle throughout all types of charts.

‘Always keep the geometrical fundamental of balance, plus the har-
monical relationship between degrees, points, days, months, and weeks,
in the forefront of attention. At the same time be prepared to allow an
“orb” of “aspect.” That is, allow for discrepancies in all computations up
to about 244%. An objective of 90 days or 90 dollars can carry a range
of points 2%4% higher or 244% lower. 25% of 90 is 2¥%, so the range
would be from 87% days, weeks, points or dollars, to 9214 days, weeks,
points or dollars. Apply this general percentage “orb” to all computed
objectives and resistance points.

 

 

 

DOW JONES RALS

 

trata

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS _**")5

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

RANGE JAN. Ist to SEPT. 29-1933

Hane — — 2 hy

aa

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


116 MARKET CHARTS

In the penetration of trend lines or previous highs and previous lows
on the daily charts, the percentage rule can generally be ignored for the
“one point” rule. This rule applies to all chart points not computed on
the degree points of the major angles, such as trend line points, highs and
lows, the applications of the Dow Theory, and in interpretation by the
Point and Figure method. The rule is, allow a one full point penetra-
tion before accepting the implication as definite.

‘The volume of transactions is important. It should be charted on all
stock charts and on the charts of the Averages, and if possible, on grain
charts, In Plate 2 the volume of transactions is entered on the bottom of
the chart, with daily vertical lines indicating the number of transactions
in millions of shares. Follow through this chart of the volume to see how
the volume increased as the trend line on the lower side of the channel
was broken near D. As point 3 was approached, volume decreased; the
pressure of liquidation was passing, with prices preparing for a recovery.
But as volume did not materially increase on the upside movement
along the succeeding higher bottoms at 4, 5, and 6, the bullish trend was
not convincing.

Note that all minor tops and bottoms carry an upward or downward
Tine of 90, or 45° angle line. As long as the minor trend holds above this
line the minor trend continues unchanged. When this angle is broken a
reversal or consolidation occurred. Use of this angle on every daily chart
is of tremendous value in short term trading operations. But remember,
like the major trend lines across tops and bottoms, it only is effective on
charts which follow the arithmetical balance of one unit for time and one
unit for price; and, that every calendar day is provided for and shown
on the chart,

As with the weekly charts, experiment and test charts of past action
with these methods.

CHAPTER FIVE

SUPPLEMENTARY HELPS

If every investor and trader will keep an up to date and carefully
drawn set of charts, for every grain option and stock in which he is i
terested, he will be amply repaid in greater profits, plus a new basis of
confidence. Such charts, used in conjunction with a subscription to a
technical and advisory service, will enable him to not only maintain a
market perspective, but help him to crystallize his observations into
profitable action. The better a trader understands his reasons for making
‘commitments, the greater are his chances to attain profitable results.

As a minimum, use a weekly and a daily chart for every grain option,
and stock, in which you are interested. Then, if possible, supplement the
individual charts with charts of the Rails and the Industrials in stock:
and in grains, carry a corn option if you are trading in wheat, or wheat if
you are interested in corn. The Dow Theory where the primary and
intermediate trends are involved, is very useful in not only stocks, but in
grains. In stocks, use the daily Industrial Averages, and the daily Rail
Averages as compiled by Dow, Jones and Company. In grain, use the
option of wheat to replace the Industrials, and the option of corn to re-
place the Rails. Always use options which run out in the same month—
like September wheat and September corn. The Chicago Board of Trade
options work quite effectively in this form.

The Dow Theory is a method of market interpretation developed by
the late Charles H. Dow of the Wall Street Journal. It was later ampli-
fied by William P. Hamilton. In recent years there has been a pro-
nounced tendency to read certain implications into the theory which it
was never designed to convey. Basically, the Dow Theory is a very use-
ful method of interpreting the intermediate and primary trends only.
Its use in minor trends is of little value. For everything that may be im-
plied under the Dow Theory study the book by Robert Rhea, entitled
“The Dow Theory.”

‘One of the oldest professional forms of charting market prices is the
Point and Figure Method. It is an excellent supplement to the geo-
metrical charts, when the chartist wants a separate check on the im-
portant levels of accumulation and distribution, resistance points and the
main trend, The method pays no attention to calendar or market time;
it is not concerned with the volume of transactions. Its entire purpose is
to follow the price movement. The upper left hand portion of the chart
comprising Plate 2 illustrates a one point chart which was compiled by
the Point and Figure Method. It will be noted that units of price less
than one, such as the fractions of 4 and ¥%, are ignored. In compiling
these charts the general rule is that full point changes are entered on the
chart by x marks. Starting on a day a stock moves between 11% and
127%, the figure to be entered is an x at 12—the only full figure in that
range. Then, if the stock advanced through 13, into 14, an x is entered

 

 

 

 

 

  


118, MARKET CHARTS

in the space above the x at 12. If, however, the stock price chums be-
tween 12¥%4 and 133%, and then breaks through the full figure 13, move
to the next vertical column of squares to the right and enter x at 13. The
data for these changes may be taken from quotations in newspaper fi
nancial pages, or from the daily range charts; but the only satisfactory
source, so as to follow all fluctuations, is to take the data directly from
the tape.

Refinements of this method are used in a great many ways. There are
one point charts, half point, quarter point, three point and the five point.
All forms have their own particular use and contribute to market in-
terpretation as a whole. Considerable data on this method is available.

Various mathematical forms have been developed to produce auto-
matic “buy” and “sell” signals. The most noteworthy of these are labeled
“running average” devices. These may consist of two lines running on an
arithmetical chart. As long as the same trend continues these lines hold a
parallel position to each other. At a major turning point the one line
will cross the other. A popular method of computing such a pair of lines
is to use the daily close for one line and the average of the closes of the
preceding week for the other line. Sometimes the average of the pre-
ceding highs, or lows, are run on one of the lines, or a third, and some-

1¢s even a fourth line is added, each line carrying various combina-
tions of figures.

But, to supplement the geometrical method of charting there is one
basic method which overshadows all others in usefulness, It lies in
close study of the tape itself. On the tape is recorded every transaction
in the market, with every fluctuation in price, every item of volume; or,
in brief, a completely detailed moving picture of each stock and the
market as a whole. Watching every movement of price and volume on
‘the tape, without retaining the perspective of trends revealed in the
charts, is a danger few observers can guard against.

 

 

 

Section IV


CHAPTER ONE,

FIRST STEPS PUTTING IT TOGETHER

‘The purpose is to try to define or at least make an estimate of the
probable future trend of speculative markets, notably stocks and com-
modities. Is the major or long term trend upward or down? It was up-
ward in stock market averages from 1932 to 1965, approximately 33
years, but something else in terms of individual stocks then and since.
‘And this basic upward trend actually was a series of intermediate up-
ward and intermediate trends constantly making marks on affairs. For
example, from 1932 to 1937 was an intermediate upward trend; from
1937 to 1942 was an intermediate downward trend. And within all in-
termediate trends, whether upward or down, are constant minor trends,
One of the initial steps in developing estimates of trend prospects is to
define precisely what these trends may be.

It is amazing the ignorance which prevails on these elementary fac-
tors. Most brokerage salesmen, and there are exceptions, seem bred to
markets pointing upward in their incessant search for orders to buy
something. Declines are admitted but always as temporary setbacks.
In turn, most of their customers think always somewhere the trend will
be upward. An old wheeze is that security prices always eventually go
higher and compare the Dow-Jones Averages of 1897 with those of
recent years. One quick answer is that Pennsylvania Railroad in the
days of World War I was the final word as a deluxe, income paying blue
chip of blue chips. To soften what may seem to be a put-down note that
Haloid, the poor and struggling cousin of Rochester photo industry
moguls for many years now has grown to some stature as Xerox. The
trend must be defined by the position of the Averages and the issues
being scrutinzed as possible candidates for purchase or sale.

‘An intermediate trend usually has five phases, three in its direction
and two corrective minor trends. Thus, the intermediate upward trend
usually has a relatively small initial upward phase such as July to Sep-
tember 1932 on the Industrials, a minor downtrend of varying length
such as September 1932 to February 1933. The second upswing minor
trend follows as from March to July 1933. The second setback carried
to near the end of 1934 from which the third upswing and blow-off phase
made a peak in early 1937. It is almost axiomatic that the third phase of
an intermediate uptrend is the largest and longest because by that time
people feel the future profit prospects are both unlimited and assured.
As one technician often said when people demand stocks in a third up-
ward phase he always was happy to please them and sell out all the
stocks he owned.

‘The years 1973 and 1974 marked the most devastating market losses
than any two year interval since the early 1930's. Vicious declines oc-
curred in 1966 and 1969 in terms of the popular Averages but com-
parable rebounds followed rather quickly to restore preceding values

 


122 SECTION IV

and the Over-The-Counter market did not collapse. In our annual trend
projection estimates issued and copyright in December annually for the
forthcoming year cyclic estimates again proved themselves. For ex-
ample, 1974, at the end of 1973, was @ chaotic prospect after February
was out of the way, as Jupiter would begin to move toward a square of
Saturn. And in April the weak trine of retrograde Uranus to Saturn
would begin to shift to a square. These are bearish elements intensified
by the Node moving through Sagittarius all year, the opposition area to
our Gemini critical point. Forecast projection: firming early in the year,
late May peak, September low.

‘One of our market turning points, in the relation of Jupiter and Saturn
‘at 126°, converged in early February in a weak manner, because Saturn
was retrograde at the time; again in late September when Saturn was
direct but Jupiter was retrograde; and again in December. At the latter,
Jupiter was direct but Saturn again was retrograde. However, very sig-
nificant factors were included in the December data: Uranus had moved
into Scorpio and was working toward a trine with Saturn, Jupiter was
nearing a trine to Saturn which also would be a trine to Uranus; and, the
opposition of the Node to 8° Gemini culminated late in the month. With
the stock market at the lowest point since the panic of 1962, and within
shouting distance of the highs of 1956, it was the framework of a classic
Tow.

‘The 1974 market trends confirmed the 1932-1965 upward major
trend had reversed to a major downward trend in its first decline made

1966. However, an intermediate upward trend correction should fol-
ow, and be of considerable magnitude in prices and quite lengthy in
time.

In the projected trend estimates for 1975, issued and copyright in De-
cember 1974, a peak was anticipated May 29th when a strong square of
Jupiter and Saturn occurred, and repeated in late June and again in
mid-July. By December, and Jupiter turning direct the 11th, the up-
swing was projected to resume.

Recall in the foregoing that the September through December 1974
cyclic data was turning into bullish. Meantime the technical structure
of the stock market had developed that the primary or major trend, in
terms of the Averages, was down. The widely acclaimed 1973 high on
the Industrials, which never had been confirmed by the Transport
Average, had been a false move which had collapsed into the panic con-
dition of 1973 and 1974. What caused the panic? Of course there are a
multitude of reasons and explanations are comfortable,

But We Are Going to Ignore Everything But Astro-Cycle Timing

 

 

 

 

   

and then look for confirmatory action in the trend and market ampli-
tude,

So charts of market statistics are the next step in putting it together.
If the section on setting up the geometrical chart form needed has been
quickly read and not carefully studied step by step retracement may be
irksome at the moment. Here is a simplified explanation. That it may

FIRST STEPS PUTTING IT TOGETHER 123

seem repetitious may clarify some factors which may have been hazy.
‘The application is for the more prevalent daily chart of price ranges, to
aid in grasping the method.

‘The elements which mark the transaction of any exchange, in
vidual stocks and in any commodity, are the end result of an auction re-
sulting from many sources. The elements which motivate these sources
are operating twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week, although
‘the auction market may operate for only a few hours a day in a five day
week. In order to visualize some of the actual phenomena of market
trends and the waves of activity a daily chart must show every calendar
day. Where Saturday, Sundays and holidays occur blank spaces show in
the chart.

‘The second fundamental is to recognize the immutable law that a
visual record of price trends accepts the premise that time and space,
‘or amplitude and distance, must be equal. Thus, if one space represent-
ing one calendar day in the horizontal plane is one-eighth inch, then one-
eighth inch is mandatory in the vertical plane to represent one unit of
price. The unit prices most commonly accepted are one dollar for one
point in a stock, one cent as one point in grain, etc.

‘The two initial fundamental premises are: on daily price range charts
all calendar days must be shown, and the width of the space comprising
a calendar day is exactly the same as the height of the space representing
the unit price.

  

 

 

 


CHAPTER TWO

TIMING ELEMENTS

‘As a market tool, charts afford an interpretive insight which is culti-
vated by experience. In themselves charts do not forecast but market
action revealed by charts presents means of interpretation to the ob-
server from which tentative projections may be formulate

“Means of estimating the duration in time and the objective in price of
‘a market trend, whether upward or downward, is the goal of market
analysis. The multitude of factors involved have so few absolutes on
which to base judgment the process is more an interpretive art than a
science. However, if market charting is adapted to those mathematical
laws of trigonometric relations which apply to all problems of time and
space many factors of science may be applied, and interpretation forti-
fied.

‘Trigonometry involves angles. An angle is generated by two lines, one
stationary and the other rotating. In market charts the stationary line
‘becomes a major high, or conversely a major low. Angles ate measured
in radians or in degrees. A circle divides into 360 degrees; when it is
divided by two lines at right angles through the center the angle at the
center is 90 degrees. The circle then has four quadrants of 90 degrees
each. Note that the angle defines the number of degrees. If a radius of a
circle is bent on the circumference of the same circle the subsequent arc
‘marks an angle termed a radian. A radian is 57° 17’ 45” or 57.2958"; pi
js 3.14159, so pi radians is 180°; pi/2 radians is 90°; pi/3 radians 60°
‘The harmonic divisions of 90° are ¥2 or 45°, Y4 or 2242" and Ye 11%".
‘The harmonic divisions of 60° are ¥4 or 30°; %4 or 15° and % 7¥4°. In
our market charting we view these degrees as angles of the amplitude of
trends of prices and the distance velocity in time and price. Thus there is
the velocity of either an advance or decline in prices defined in degrees,
and in addition there is a harmonic relation in the angle of velocity to the
waves of prices. A rise which adheres to a trend channel of appro:
mately 15° degrees reveals price resistances at 15, 74, 3%. To
lustrate: a stock in a 15° uptrend has an upside breakout at 35, ma-
jor resistance will be at 35 plus 15 and lesser resistance at 35 plus
3% and 35 plus 74, as long as the 15° uptrend channel remains in-
tact. Another stock is priced at 20 where a series of minor highs have
occurred and it leaps out of this established resistance at an apparent
45° uptrend angle. Probable resistance to the new advance will appear
at 20 plus 45, 22%, 11% and 5%. This works out as 20 plus 5% or
2554, 20 plus 11% or 31%, etc.

‘The velocity of prices changes forms one insight to the power of the
momentum which eventuates probable exhaustion. A directed magni-
tude of this velocity then can be estimated by vectors. A major vector
‘has within it a series of smaller vectors which often differ in magnitude
and direction. And a charted market trend of daily prices has a major or

 

   

TIMING ELEMENTS 125

general trend within which are a number of minor trends of varying
magnitude and duration. In charting the applications to use are polar
coordinates where a vector is defined by a magnitude and an angle, or
vectorial angle. In this usage the 90° harmonics apply to the angle of
the price trend with its time factor of days to reach exhaustion, and 60°
harmonics apply to price resistan

Tentative market price objectives which form subsequent resistance
areas often are revealed in advance by imposing triangles of varying
vectorial values. An example is to project one angle on the low close day
in prices and a lesser angle on the first preceding low close day; the
crossing will estimate exhaustion in time and price. To illustrate—the
Dow Jones Industrials have an average velocity of 45° or one-half of
pi/2 radians. The associated price resistance factor then is 60°.

Below are tracings of a daily chart of the Dow Jones Industrials from
‘March through June 1960. In Chart A the day of the highest close is at
(B); the highest preceding close day is at (A). As soon as the setback
from (B) brought a close below the previous low close day (X) a
tentative projection was entered. A 45° angle was entered at (A) and
1 60° angle projected from (B). The convergence at (C) indicated a
potential base between 600 and 605 the first week in May.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


126 SECTION IV

Price Chart B duplicates Chart A until after mid-April. When the
early May projection was confirmed, when the close (E) was above the
preceding high close (D) the low close day at (BB) was imposed with
an upward 60° angle and at the preceding low close day (AA) a 45°
angle was entered. This presented a tentative possibility of the Indus-
trials achieving the 660 level in early June. Note also the arithmetical
resistance approximations; for example, from (BB) the first surge was
598 plus 15, the second surge 598 plus 30; the eventual top approxi-
mately 598 plus 60.

In practice the precision of the foregoing is often upset by unusual
surges of mass psychology. As a defense several measures are constantly
used to fortify judgment and guard against changes in the apparent
normal of market action.

Refer briefly to the circle in quarters with its quarter square on page
and then the subsequent page depicting the full 90° square with the
more critical angles. The daily application has been outlined leading up
to the significant applications.

Often there is a search for repeating cycles by statistics and then
there is the constant reference to the economic cycle. The former is the
often heard 9 year cycle, the 11 year cycle, the 18 year cycle or the 54
year cycle. Recently the unprecedent extreme low of 1976 in Sun-Spot
activity, and its wide range of effects related to weather, harvests and
humans, has relegated its average 11 years cycle to prospects of a major
cycle of 80 to 90 years. It has been a wide search for statistical cycles
with indifferent success.

‘The latter or what is labeled the economic cycle avoids being trapped
by a time factor. Conveniently it is often a theory. A prospective de-
mand such as housing is pump-primed with capital and credit. Contracts
are let and in a certain period of interval business supplying materials
expand as producers convert raw materials. So it goes, one factor sprout-
ing another, until the “cycle” runs its course; it might be a brief year or
two, or it might run for many years. Its greatest problem is a trail of bad
judgment. Statistical cycles constantly skate the surface trying to av-
erage a factor from past statistical ebb and flow. Astro-cycles have been
carefully rejected as faulty to start with, or in more recent years since
the puritan mystique has lost its thought-control powers, most research
has been confined to five or ten years of research effort, and then rushing
into print. ‘The factors become overwhelming by their large number in-
stead of being sifted down to potent and workable simplicity. Certainly
it has faults of omission.

Someone claims astro-cycles all converge to the same position once
briefly only every 26,000 years. It may be true but the point is no two
cycles are exactly alike. Jupiter has its 12 year cycle but in the 12 years
its apparent retrograde and forward paths aspect other astro-cycles with-
out simple statistical repetition, And markets reflect timing factors
which are not precisely symmetrical as mathematical cycles, a statement
which seems elementary but is noted here because a degree of elasti

 

 

TIMING ELEMENTS 127

has to be accepted. A market may be projected to top out at noon Mon-
day and doesn't; it tops out late Tuesday, etc.
‘The Earth takes 365 days to go around the Sun, and the Moon makes

18

DOW-JONES TRANSPORT AVERAGE
WEEKLY PRICE RANGES:
JULY 1974 ~ SEPT. 1976

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13 revolutions around the Earth in 364 days, or 7 revolutions in 91 days.
A satisfactory graphic presentation is to use the 360° circle, divide it in
four 90° parts, and keep repeating the 90° square at highs and lows. Re-
lated is the phenomenon of markets staging price surges of 11 calendar
days (9 market days) which relates to the 88 day cycle of Mercury in-
terlaced with the 365° and 28° and 91° factors.

‘The most comprehensive and valuable charts are those of the weekly
ranges. Useful are monthly range charts. The tendency is to get trapped
with so many daily range charts interpretation gets lost. Application


128 SECTION IV

of the weekly range chart exhibits many useful elements, In the fore
One Tod cpl ata noted a rebound and subrantial upswing in the
ane ert was im the prospect. A possible September fow sas the
ee mints December the probable kiko into the upside. This
ended a bese in October to December inclusive. The Dow-Jones
Foren Average chert usd for elarty and space Kmitatins

CHAPTER THREE

CHARTING THE PRICE
RANGE DATA

‘This chart is the weekly ranges of the Dow-Jones Transport Average
from July 1974 to August 1975 inclusive. As discussed, the September
low was anticipated late in 1973. When the October rally and subse-
quent minor setback stabilized at higher levels than the September low,
confirmation of the September low was implied. ‘The two parallel 30°
lines (line A & line B) were entered, from the October low close week
and the July high close. Added was the dashed line exactly between
the two which was to represent market vitality, viz, ranges below the
dashed line would be weak, on the line normal strong, above the line
excessive strength inviting distribution.

‘Next step was to enter the initial 45°-60° bisecting projections (in
very volatile moves resort has to be made to try a 60°~75° combina-
tion). Point (1), for the 60° line, was at the bottom of the LOW CLOSE
weele of the setback in early December. Point (2) 45° from the Novem-
ber low close week. The convergence (3) was in the center of the tenta-
tive range of closes at 166 the first week of April. When the April
tentative objective was approached the market was very strong (above
the midline slightly) but nevertheless reacted as due, up about 30 points
fon the move from point (1). (Recall that 30 points or degrees are a
critical zone).

The reaction was quickly absorbed and the low close week range had
a tentative (dashed) line (4) entered which converged in May at a 172
close. This was the zone of the cycle high of the year prospect we
already discussed. Also the 172 prospect was precisely 45 points above
the October extreme low close week of 1974. It was time to move out.
On the move the actual high close of the year was made on the weekly
ranges the second week of July after seven weeks of lower prices and
swinging congestion.

Confirmatory weakness in Inte July invited placement of downward
angle lines (5) and (6) which converged at (7) approximately on
closes 22 points down or half of the critical 45 points resistance, imply-
ing a strong market and higher levels. However, the major underside
upward 30° line from the October low close week was under test for six
‘weeks but without a close making a penetration of it. Conclusion: take
‘out any short positions but defer buying pending more well defined
market prospects.

At this juncture an upward 60° line was placed at the bottom of the
ow close week (8) (at 150-151) and a 45° line at the bottom of the
low close week PRECEDING the high of late July, which converged
at 204-205 in April 1976. As it was close to the major 60° resistance,
and the price ranges substantially above the median line, headlong buy.


130 SECTION IV

ing demand was coming in. Prices could attack the upper side of the
channel, marked by (B), but the third upward phase was in full bloom
and the upward intermediate trend was blowing off. It was time to be
a nice fellow and feed out the stocks they were bidding up in the fever
to buy.

This same step by step procedure, if followed exactly as detailed, can
be applied to any stock or commodity which is active and has participa:
tion.

Spend no time experimenting with different scales of measure and
papers. The 5 spaces to a centimeter, with each centimeter accented, is
available at almost all stationery stores. Cheaper grades, but the same
precise measure, are in every super-market and variety stores in 84/4”x
11” that carry school supplies. Sheets can be glued together as needed.
‘The uniformity afforded gives facility with projections and the rela-
tively small size is easy in picking out prospective moves. Plastic pro-
tractors (180°) of the 6” variety are a must. The 15, 40, 45, 60, 75 and
90 degree lines can be scratched and inked on them.

‘To lay out paper and set it up to begin a chart sometimes is a road-
block. The data is not available or takes too much time to search out.
Sometimes the plea is that it means going through weeks of back issues.
BARRON'S is the most available source of weekly price ranges and a
subscription to build a file of copies is a good investment. Most specula-
tors with a background of working at market action keep charts of the
daily price ranges of several commodities and stocks. These charts can
be readily used to run the WEEKLY ranges which comprise the secret,
of this method

Without a variety of personal daily charts and pending an accumula-
tion of price range data from BARRON'S or other sources, the follow-
ing are useful.

DAILY BASIS STOCK CHARTS, issued weekly
TRENDLINE 1 month—4 issues $27.50

345 Hudson Street

New York, N.Y. 10014

 

3-TREND SECURITY CHARTS _ Single copy $7.00
(weekly ranges; do not confuse with Cycli-Graphs)
ries Research Company.
208 Newbury Street
Boston, Mass. 02116

‘The Trendline charts are daily ranges which must be translated to
our weekly ranges and the week's close included. The Security Charts
are weekly and cover about two preceding years. Unfortunately it is in
a semi-log scale which is useless for our purpose. But weekly ranges may
readily be placed on our chart form. Volume also is valuable and might
be used also. On both of the above a good magnifying glass, in order to
get closes exactly, is needed.

Our comments and illustrations have been confined to upward trends.

 

CHARTING THE PRICE RANGE DATA 131

Often more profitable in a shorter length of time are short positions, or
short against purchases which cannot be liquidated for one or several
reasons. All techniques are of course reversed. For example, the basic
working unit of the 90 square unit with its angles from an apex at the
lower left hand corner is turned so the apex is at the UPPER left hand
corner. This is obvious but years ago readers sometimes reported dif-
ficulty in applying this device.

A very few readers in the 1930's, when this work first appeared,
critically rejected it. In several cases these critics were asked to send
charts that the problem, if any, might be overcome. In every case they
had intruded their own ideas or habits of charting, usually by distorting
the scale so that the price unit was not exactly equal to the time unit.
Sometimes the weekly closes were carelessly entered or left out entirely.

‘As a final comment this text requires step by step study. Casual
readers will be unable to follow parts of the text, and proceed to take a
critical stance this is just another book. It is not, but some key factors
are scattered through the text. Herein is the complete skeleton of the
results of 54 years of research and study which included 45 years as a
professional analyst. Many long time clients have insisted for the past
ten years that my personal methods of interpretation should be recorded.
for others who are sincere students searching income and security in
perhaps the most exploited money melange in our society—speculative
markets.

 


CHAPTER FOUR

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS
FOR A LOCALITY

(Business Trends, Weather, Earthquakes, Disasters)

Locate from an atlas or other source the latitude and longitude of
the location to be examined within a degree of each. Refer to the World
‘Map page to define the proper sign zone. For example, let us take Pitts-
burgb, Penna. The approximate data shown in a Table of Houses
(Simplified Scientific T of H by Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside,
Calif. covers 0° to 66° latitude.) is 40° N. Latitude, 80° W. Longitude.
From 60° to 90° W. Longitude is the sign Capricorn. On the companion
USA map 80° W. is in the Aries Dwadasamsas ruled by Mars Pluto
(action, steel, iron, ete). The count of West Longitude is counter-
clockwise beginning at Greenwich 0°. But the count within Signs is
clockwise. ‘Thus 90° W. Longitude is 0° Capricorn with 80° W. Longi-
tude 10° Capricorn,

To be meticulous, which is superficial in this instance, we can intrude
the Pyramid correction of 1° 7¥4'. This means that 90° W. Longitude
becomes a trifle less than 89° and Capricorn 10° then is slightly less
than 9°. Turning to the Table of Houses under 40° Latitude and 9°
Capricorn on the 10th house cusp we find 9° (page 214) and apply the
data to a chart form.

In Raphael's Ephemeris for 1977 we use January 23rd data as the
beginning of the biggest winter storm in many years. The data is for
noon London but adjustments are not needed; it is entered in the proper
houses. See chart.

Ruler of the 10th is Saturn in the Sth and retrograde in Leo. The

les of planetary signs and houses makes this position an 8th house,
with 10th house mixed tones, active in the 5th house. On January 23rd
Saturn was sextile Pluto, square Uranus, trine Neptune, quincunx Mars,
but exactly biquintile the MC with Mercury rapidly nearing a conjunc.
tion with the MC. This is a more devastating major storm potential
than in the famous and costly affair of 1888, and similarly, the smaller
storm of 1918; Saturn was in Leo also in both of the latter.

Putting together some of the key words to the foregoing we have:
In winter the long angle of the Sun's rays on the Earth keeps the tem-
perature of the Earth’s atmosphere at low ebb. Leo is a Fire sign ruled
by the Sun and Saturn in Leo makes the Eerth colder than normal; in
the Sth house depresses the welfare of the area of the sign it rules
(Capricorn), generates hardship for women and children, reduces
speculative activity and public confidence and can be very depressing
to business and government. The key words of each aspect and planet
can exhibit the various problems and imply the final outcome, as

  

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 133

9
w
12 18

  

16 16
A 37

9

changing aspects are followed in the ephemeris for subsequent weeks
or months.

Ina locality chart the house each planet is in may be significant. And
when a planet is in aspect to one or more other planets its potency is
enhanced. So-called good and bad aspects are of little significance. The
square and the trines are significant but are of differing values according
to the natures of the planets involved. An opposition of Venus and
Jupiter lacks the activation of such an aspect as Mars to Saturn, for
example. And the generally ignored biquintile group are the action
triggering group, second only to the conjunctions to the Ist, 4th, 7th and
40th house cusps, viz Asc, Nadir, Desc, and MC.

In our example chart the forepart of 1977 presents a disturbing busi-
ness, health and weather prospect for the Capricorn rulership area, The
often mitigating influence of Jupiter is quite meagre in Taurus and
lacking any close aspect of planet array. In early January Mercury was
retrograde in Capricorn activating the aspect array centering on Saturn
in Leo. Then Mars entered Capricorn, Mercury turned direct to cross
the MC, with its 144° (biquintile) aspect to Saturn January 23rd and
its converging sextile to Uranus on the 26th. Mercury Uranus aspects


134 SECTION IV

at sensitive chart points always indicate wind and when closely aspected
are the key to tornado paths; Saturn indicated cold.

‘The Mercury Mars in Capricorn combination continued active.
February 2nd Mars at 24° and Mercury at 18° triggered the Saturn in
Leo aspected array on the MC Leo locality zone in the section from
about 140° East Longitude or about 20°. At about 40° North Latitude
‘the Tables of Houses gives us 20° Leo on the MC and 11° Scorpio on
the Asc. Reported from Northern Japan were heavy losses and damage
with about 10% feet of snow over a period of 48 hours. Uranus was
conjunct with Asc. ruling the 4th with property damage large and sud-
den. Thus abnormal planetary arrays in Capricorn and centered in
‘Western Pennsylvania late in January 1977 had varying effects in other
areas. For example, Saturn in 14° retrograde in Leo approximates the
MC of the Japanese storm area. Another, with the same data:—Place
Uranus 11° or 41° East Long. 10° No. Lat. Scorpio on the NADIR (4th
cusp) of the 11° MC; 2° Aquarius Asc. ruled by Uranus, with Mars the
trigger. Ethiopian leadership assassinated in a major revolt.

Sometimes indications are observed which seem to indicate an im-
portant change in local weather and nothing occurs. The forces might
be compared to a loaded gun which has all the elements to produce
shooting a bullet. Nothing happens without trigger action. Note care-
fully trigger aspects conjunct or close aspects from the quintile group to
the angle house cusps, exact degree of the preceding lunation, and oc-
casionally the parallel shift from North to South and South to North of
Mercury, Venus and Mars.

initial facility in interpretation, experiment with these key

 

 

   

Sign Nature Ist Decan 2nd Decan ed Decan
CP) ARIES stormy, showers calm hot

(8) TAURUS auiet wet stormy
Q) GEMINI Temperate threatening
(&) CANCER warm normal

() LEO tonid quiet

(im) VIRGO. moist humid

(=) LIBRA changeable nice temperate moist

(m)) SCORPIO. storms cold static ‘turbulent
(4) SAGITTARIUS — windy humid lacie stormy
(13) CAPRICORN wet ary temperate moist cold
() AQUARIUS. moist damp changes stormy
(GO PISCES: wet windy nice wet rurbulent

The key-words helpful in identifying effects of a planet on weather
and seismic trends, perhaps over-simplified as strong aspects amplify
or neutralize the simplified effects, ar

    

(%) Mercury—wind; (¢_) Venus—temperate & mild; (3) Mars
—turbulence, heat; (2) Jupiter—mild, warm, sultry; (> ) Saturn
—cold, precipitation; (8 ) Uranus—sudden changes; (1) Nep-
tune—strong winds often easterly; (2) Pluto—focuses, amplifies.

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 135

‘The aspects between planet positions and orbs of effectiveness are
significant.

A general rule is an orb of 5% each side of center, viz, 90° 4%4°,
ete. The opposition (180°) is 9° each side of center, and the con-
junction is the same. All orbs in the Quintile series are limited
402°.

The activity of aspects may appear confusing as the three classes ac-

tively used overlap or are in the same degree (°). Interpretation ex-

perience quickly develops the application in a specific situation.

Harmonizing aspects (traditionally favorable) are: semi-sextile
30°, sextile 60°, trine 120° and 180°-30° or 150° quincunx.
Activating ‘aspects (traditionally unfavorable) are: semi-square
45°, square 90° and opposition 180°; conjunctions (0°) are of
planet’s natures. The 224%° and the 180-45, which is 135°, often
are useful,

‘The triggering aspects (also marking reversals in some market
trends) are the Quintiles related to one fifth of the 360° circle, or
72°. For example, the root is 9, twice 9 is 18, twice 36 is 72, 72
plus 18 is 90, 72 plus 90 is 162, 162 plus 18 is 180 (except for the
latter this series is useful in estimating peaks of intensity between
major planets in close aspect). The second series of quintiles begins
with: 18 plus 9 is 27, twice 27 is 54, 54 plus 72 is 126, 126 and 54
are 180. (market trend low points often appear at these angles be-
tween planets). And particularly in weather and seismic data 72x2
is the 144° angle.

 

 

Since the attempts to develop push-button thinking by computer have
appeared, which may employ hoards of people collecting statistics to
feed the monsters, they may locate recurring cycles of weather condi-
tions, business trends, etc. Some of the outcome have cost a mint of
money with the only practical result many people are employed at nice
wages. Most of the tentative cycle rhythms usually relate to the follow-
ing planetary conjunctions of geocentric computations.

Saturn Uranus every 44 plus years, Jupiter Uranus every 13 plus
years, Jupiter Saturn about 20 years, Jupiter Pluto 12% years,
‘Uranus Pluto 127, Saturn Pluto 334, Saturn Neptune 36, Jupiter
‘Neptune 12 plus, Uranus Neptune 171, Pluto Neptune 492 years.

In the late 1930's I had temporary access to detailed daily weather
data for a mid-west area for much of the period from 1910 to 1920.
Before the time involved made it necessary to abandon the project to
return to making a living a definite Jupiter (rain) and Saturn (cold)
combination was fruitful. The base was the Rotational Jupiter-Saturn
Conjunction chart of 1921 (included in this work on another page).
‘This figure was super-imposed on a MC locality figure and around the
circle daily ephemeris transits were compared approximately 20 years

 

 


136 ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

from the 1910-1920 specific daily weather figures. It was not possible
to bring the research to compare other data time spans.

Weather and seismic conditions have a marked effect on business,
health, and all the factors which involve society. In examining clues to
conditions and probable future trends we can outline months and years
in advance by day to day computations from an ephemeris which covers
the periods being examined. It is a mathematical exercise according to
the framework of methods and procedures offered here. It is about as
occult, crystal balling, or ESP concentration as driving an automobile
on a freeway.

Procedure to examine the business prospect of a specific area follows
much the same methods we have applied to weather estimates. Major
difference is that house positions become more significant and the
angles (1st, 4th, 7th, 10th) recede from dominance (see section on house
rulerships).

‘Asan example we shall briefly review the late 1920's and early 1930's.
During those years I was traveling extensively in the USA and Canada
and was daily aware what went on in widely separated localities.
‘Modern history is conveniently rewritten often to erase “non-essentials”
and loses a lot of truth in the process. Where did the Crash and Depres-
sion get its start? It was a combination of many things. After Europe in
‘the 1920's, and the sad conditions of Germany, Russia, etc, there was a
huge effort by private capital to stabilize the situation. ‘It tried but
lacked the resources to generate capital, credit and money. The effort
‘was made but it collapsed.

Refer to an ephemeris (preferably Rapheel’s) for each year from
1928 to 1933. Set a series of locality charts of the house positions only
for a half dozen centers across the USA, such as New York, Detroit,
Chicago, etc. For quick review note positions of Jupiter, Saturn and
Uranus only on these charts beginning in 1928. Saturn is in the MC
area of Sagittarius MC charts of the West and is moving East. Late in
1929 it is established in Capricorn moving to a square of Uranus in
Aries in a first house ruling the 12th.

In 1930 Saturn clings to Capricorn in square to Uranus and Jupiter
‘moves into Cancer squaring Uranus and opposing Saturn. Through
1931 the situation hangs on until early in 1932 with Saturn moving,
East to Aquarius out of Capricorn. In 1952 there was a somewhat re-
lated situation of square and opposition. But it occurred in entirely dif-
ferent sectors than the 1930's in sign positions and locality houses.
Saturn at MC is the clue to the depression of the 1930's.

Incidentally, if a person super-imposes a chart of birth on a selected
locality the effects of that environment often will be indicated. To
illustrate locality factors refer to data on the mid-1930's for the upper
mid-west. Saturn by forward and apparent retrograde was on the
Ascendant opposing Neptune, Uranus afflicted also but in the second
house, etc. it was depression compounded by drought situations. Many
ultimately profited immensely but the majority suffered, particularly
‘those with their personal chart positions related to the Saturn in Pisces

 

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 137

locality chart. Some years ago a person who consistently experienced liv-
ing and career problems in New York City, with an afflicted 4th house at
the NYC MC in Capricorn, moved to Idaho where the Sagittarius MC
was conjunct his Jupiter. In the subsequent several years he realized
excellent business, health and social success. Of most value though is
the means to adjust to the problems of a locality through an insight into
area syndromes, in relation to the aspirations of the person exploring
the situation.

EARTHQUAKES
A Long Range Forecasting Procedure

‘The Earth is a pulsating mass with changing weather, constantly
shifting ocean tides, plus thousands of earthquakes every year. Most
of the latter never are sensed but occasionally the exception occurs
and generates devestation and loss of human life. Recent estimates are
that earthquake fatalities_in from the Guatemala, China and
‘Turkey epicenters, were the laigest sce the year $5664D. 1 largest since the year 1566 AD, To include
the March 4th, 1977 major Tosses in Rumania intensifies the problem.

Science explains the mechanics of earthquakes is a movement of the
earth's crust which is from 2 to 30 miles deep. Under the crust is a hot,
Jiquid mantle about 1,800 miles deep and then into the center @ hot,
metal inner and outer core about 2,200 miles thick. Forces below the
crust may fracture and break the crust to form mountains, volcanic
eruptions and earthquakes. In some instances the surface crust has been
damaged and a break or fracture exists which marks weakness and
repeated tremors occur; then quakes become a regular situation.

‘The point under the earth's crust where the greatest pressure de-
velops is the epicenter where the earthquake begins. However, greatest
damage sometimes occurs many miles away by what are called seismic
waves. A homely example is watching a pie baking in a hot oven with
the top crust without any vent holes. After a time the pressure in the
pie begins to mount, the crust bulges and subsequently the edges burst
open or the thinest area of the crust pops in a small explosion. On the
‘earth's crust the increasing pressure causes the bending, dropping and
sometimes breaking of the surface, to generate the quake.

Very little has been accomplished in the efforts to forecast the time
and place of earthquakes. In some areas earth tremors occur almost
daily and are under constant study. The San Andreas fault in California
extends about 650 miles along the Pacific Coast from north of San
Francisco south. In the sparsely populated mountain area of southwest
Oregon-northwest California in 1926-27 severe earth tremors aroused
panic to find the cause. During the years to follow a forecasting formula
was attempted. Like everything else it has limitations, but the way
estimates weeks, months, and in several instances years in advance,
have been confirmed in approximate time and place, is of interest. Al-
though asked for my method of interpretation I have avoided expiana-

 

 

 


138 ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

tions: these notes present the simple procedure, with the hope others
will test the method.

Usually most observers are interested in a specific area where the
latitude and longitude are readily apparent. The forecaster wants to
scrutinize where and when a quake may occur. The location is un-
Known, Here is a means of overcoming the problem.

Soon after mid-1976 Raphael's Ephemeris for 1977 was issued the
initial result was to scan the cyclic prospects day by day. The first crisis
area appeared on February 24th in which Uranus, Saturn and Mars
were in the same degree but NOT the same signs. Uranus in Scorpio
was square Saturn in Leo and retrograde; with Mars in Aquarius op-

position Saturn and square Uranus. This is earthquake weather if a
pee tea ee eee eee

Where a quake generates major losses in human life and property
the first house of a locality chart usually is heavily involved. All the
angles are significant in locality interpretation but where loss of life and
extensive property damage occur the ascendant (cusp of the first house )
are involved. Therefore in our initial example to locate the geographical
place where quake action might occur both the MC (cusp of 10th
house) for longitude and the Ascendant for latitude have to be searched
out.

Involved primarily are Uranus in 11° Scorpio, Saturn retrograde in
11° Leo and Mars 11° Aquarius. If our interest is confined to one area,
such as the United States, reference to the World Zone map 139 W.
Longitude (11° Scorpio) is in Eastern Alaska, and the only MC loca
tion in North America, as the other signs are Leo and Aquarius. With
11° Leo the position is 131 East Longitude suggesting Japan, the Philip-
pines, etc, while Aquarius 11° is 49 West Longtitude through Greenland
and Eastern Brazil.

Before searching Ascendants at 11° degrees for each it should be
noted most of the serious earthquakes rim the entire Pacific Ocean
shores and islands. From New Zealand north around the Bering Sea
and south down North, Central and South Americas is more or less
quake prone. The only other major zone in recent years is Eastern
Europe in the area of 40° to 45° North Latitude and 20° to 50° East
Longitude. The latter “rings a bell” that the Aries-Taurus MC locality
in that area of North Latitude has a Leo Ascendant.

Now it is a simple matter of locating in a Table of Houses in the
Latitude of 45° as a beginning for 11° of Leo on the Asc. This is located
and shows 28° Aries on the MC. In the column for 46° North Lat. the
11° Asc. has 26° Aries on the MC. On the Locality map 26° to 28°
Aries is 26° to 28° East Longitude. This would show formation of a
possible epicenter where internal pressure begins to build at approxi-
mately (we have avoided minutes by dealing only in degrees of latitude
and longitude) 46° North Latitude and 27° East Longitude. This
center is 50 to 100 Miles north of Bucharest, Rumania,

If this is the where, the question is when? There must be a trigger
where any of the pressure build-up could explode. Mars at the 7th

 

 

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY 139

cusp ruling the 10th and part of the 4th promises heavy property
damage and government losses. Saturn at the Ist (people) rules the 6th
afflicted is prospect of many death and health hazards. Uranus in the
4th gives promise of an entirely unexpected event requiring help from
other countries. Therefore a trigger point is serious. The first one is the
Sun crossing 11° Pisces on March 2nd, and then the Moon conjunct
Saturn and the Asc, March 3rd. On the 4th Mercury is at 3° Pisces
after completing the 162° quintile to Asc. Saturn for the big test; if
anything is to happen it is due March 4th, 1977.

‘On March 8th, 1977 Mercury was 120° from Uranus and 150° from
Saturn, Using 130° East Longitude and North Latitude (10° Leo on
the Locality map and Saturn on the MC) a quake occurred below of
Japan Sea. This action is attributed to a reflex of the same February
24th aspects.


140 ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

46 N 264 East
March 4, 1977

 

Epicenter reported 95 miles north of Bucharest.
MAJOR MODERN EARTHQUAKES AND THE RICHTER SCALE

‘The most commonly used method for describing earthquake intensity
is the Richter Scale.

‘The system, devised by C. F. Richter and later refined by Richter and
Beno Gutenberg, measures the magnitude of a quake on a logarithmic
scale using readings from a pendulum seismograph,

Each number represents an intensity about 10 times greater than
the preceding number—an earthquake rated 7.5 would be 15 times
greater than a shock measured at 6 on the scale.

‘A Richter reading of 1 to 3 would be a light tremor; 3 to 4, minor
damage near center; 5-6, moderate damage near center with injuries
unlikely; 6 to 7, felt over large area, heavy damage near center with
injuries possible, 7 to 8, widespread damage, fatali
8, many buildings destroyed and large number of deaths and injuries.

Richter readings have been used to evaluate all major quakes in the
20th century.

 

ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

  

 

    

 

 

Place Date
New Madrid, Mo 111-1812
San Francisoo, April 18, 1906
Valparaiso, Chile ‘Aug. 16, 1906
Kansu, China| Dee, 16, 1920
Japan Sopt. 1/1928
fan, China May 22,

March 2, 193

Chile Jan. 24, 1939
Southern Chile ‘May 21, 1960
Alaska’ March 23, 1964
Guatemala 4, 1976
28, 1976

   

MAJOR
EARTHQUAKE

Richter
10"
a3
86

+ in the “People's Almanac.”

 

141

 


142 ESTIMATING PROSPECTS FOR A LOCALITY

‘The problem of earthquakes has persisted for centuries and the ef-
forts to define the time and place of occurrence goes on. My work in
the subject has been incidental as a phase of economic causes. For
centuries astro-cyclic data applied to quakes has been issued. Much of
it has involved quarterly Ingress charts applied to areas which might
‘be suspect. Then’ charts based on timing comets, eclipses of both the
Sun and the Moon, and conjunctions of resulting charts with Fixed
Stars have been used. To examine the material can become quite a
laborious exercise. However, as scores of quakes and the reported data
on them are applied to the same procedures as outlined here for locality
weather prospects the charts always exhibited fair results. Here is a
recent example.

‘On November 23rd, 1976 a major quake began in Eastern Turkey in
the mountain area near the Soviet and Iranian borders with the final
death toll estimated in the thousands. The location approximated 40 E.
Long. 39 N. Lat. for most loss, but the center probably was northeast of
there in the most mountainous area. Anyway, for illustration purposes
the above will suffice.

‘The Longitude of 40 East is 10° Taurus and at 39° N, Lat. and the
Asc, is 17 plus of Leo, the nadir or 4th cusp is 10° Scorpio. Saturn was
16° Leo at the Asc, Jupiter at 25 Taurus in the 10th, Uranus conjunct
the cusp of the 4th in 8 Taurus, the Node nearby in 1° Scorpio and
Mars, Mercury and Neptune in the 4th. Tension had been brewing for
several weeks with such a combination assailing the 4th, Ist and 10th
cusps. The trigger was the lunation (new moon) of November 21st
conjunct the 4th cusp and Mars. Also the Moon had just passed a con-
junction with Uranus. If explored the Iunation solar eclipse of October
23rd may have some build-up effects, as it occurred at 0° Scorpio.

Oddly enough a quake occurred November 24th 100 miles east of
Bermuda, or about 77 W. Long. 26 N. Lat. (MC 17 Capricorn, Asc 25
Aries). Then on the 26th of November a Pacific Coastal area from
Eureka north to Crescent City suffered a quake, which was 5.8 on the
Richter scale, and compares with 8.25 in the San Francisco quake of
1906. The Eureka Crescent affair was 124 W. Long, 41 to 42 N. Lat,
which has an MC of 26° Scorpio and Asc. from 3° to 2° Aquarius.

Quakes have occurred historically in virtually all locality MC signs,
but as noted before, concentrations of planets centering in the Taurus
Scorpio signs are quake prevalent (one or the other at the MC). How-
ever, these pressures having intense aspects to the angles of other areas
signal major disasters. Examine three events in Far East areas. First,
the quake July 28th, 1976 centered at Tangshan, China, 40 N. Lat. 118
E, Long, MC 28° Cancer ASC. 23° Libra. Second, on August 18, 1976
at Mindanao, Philippines, 7 N. Lat. 134 E. Long, with MC 4° Leo con-
junct Saturn and Asc 6° Scorpio conjunct Uranus and the Node. A
quake, plus @ tidal wave, then over 20,000 homeless. And third, on
September 12th, 1976 at Okayomas, Japan, 35 N. Lat. 134 E. Long, a
typhoon with 4% feet of rain in S hours, at MC 13° Leo conjunct
Saturn, Asc. 7° Scorpio with Uranus. These three are related by similar
conditions but on examination the precise details differ.
