                AN INTRODUCTION TO THE METHODS OF WD. GANN
                         By Bryce Gilmore - www.bryce-gilmore.com
                                             .
                                         Author of
                                 Geometry of Markets I & II
                      Dynamic Time and Price Analysis of Market Trends
                             WaveTrader/CycleTrader Software
                                             .
   All the charts in this article were created using the WaveTrader/CycleTrader program
                                                 .
                       This is the uncut version of the article published in
                            YOURTradingEDGEVol. 1 No. 5 November 1996




                          William Delbert Gann (or as he preferred W.D. Gann) was a
                          pioneer in the area of time and price analysis of market activity.
                          Born in Lufkin Texas in 1878, Gann's basic premise was the
                          future is just a repetition of the past and that time governed all
                          market movements.

                          Gann traded with and taught time and price analysis methods
                          that could predict market highs and lows. Gann reputedly had
                          the knowledge to forecast the price and time of the yearly high
                          and low for commodities and stocks.

                          Each year Gann published a forecast for the following year. In
                          1928 he published a forecast of the date of the September 1929
                          US Stock Market High and that a Black Friday would occur A
                          FULL YEAR IN ADVANCE.

                          In 1932 he recommended buying stocks at the all time low in the
                          Dow in June and July.

                          Gann died in 1955 leaving his partner in the publishing company
                          Lambert-Gann, Ed Lambert, responsible for the Gann
                          knowledge.

                          In the 1960’s Billy Jones purchased what remained of Gann's
                          papers, charts and copyrights to his published works from Ed
                          Lambert. It took a semi-trailer to remove all of it!! Billy has since
                          passed away but his wife, Niki is now the custodian and has the
                          Gann material in safe keeping. Her address is
                          http://www.wdgann.com/index.htm
       1878-1955




W.D. Gann, both a keen trader and a workaholic, published many books the titles were:
     The Truth of the Stock Tape
     How to Make Profits from Puts and Calls
     Tunnel through the Air
     Magic Word
     How to Make Profits in Commodities
     45 Years In Wall Street and New Stock Trend Detector As well he produced many
     instructional courses on trading later compiled by Billy Jones into 2 trading courses;
     The W.D. Gann Commodity Course and the W.D. Gann Stock Market Course.

Gann was a prolific researcher throughout his lifetime with interests in numerology,
weather forecasting and astrology. A very religious man and a 33rd degree mason, Gann
claimed he learnt about forecasting price movements from the Bible. His knowledge of
mathematical and astrological relationships was very advanced. He used this knowledge to
formulate trading and technical analysis techniques which students could follow to identify
support and resistance levels for most free trading markets.

Gann and the creator of Elliott Wave theory - R.N. Elliott - shared some similar beliefs
about market activity. Gann believed that Bull or Bear campaigns took 3 or 4 sections to
complete the move. Elliott believed that there were 3 impulse waves in a Bull or Bear trend,
with the possibility of an extended 5th Wave to give Gann’s 4th section. Gann believed that
markets most commonly retraced 1/2 (50%), 5/8s (62.5%) or 3/8s (37.5%) of the previous
range. Elliott believed that markets most commonly retraced 61.8%, 50 % or 38.2% of the
previous range.

Gann had an arsenal of price tools he taught students and it was reputed he charged
$5000 for a weekend course in the early 1950’s, before his death in 1955. This article will
cover many of Gann’s important time and price tools. Other tools such as The Square of
Nine, Square of 144, Square of 90, Hexagon Chart and Gann’s various Master Calculators
will be covered in future articles

Gann's books are required reading for any trader or analyst who wishes to understand the
basic ways to view any market. The knowledge outlined in his works can easily be
overlooked due to the abundance of information he presented. Just the same the pattern of
information remains identical throughout all of his published work. Gann always said
"History Repeats" and repetition was his way for students to get the message.

Gann’s work included Money Management Rules and Trading Psychology concepts
expounded by many of today's top traders. He believed that you did not have to be in the
market all the time to make money. Here are some quotes from W.D. Gann taken from his
last book, How to Make Profits in Commodities. Page 11. Published by Lambert-Gann.


     "TIME TO STAY OUT OF THE MARKET: This is something important for everyone to
     know. You cannot make money by trading in the market every day or by getting in
     and out every day. There comes a time when you should stay out, WATCH and WAIT
     until you determine a DEFINITE CHANGE IN TREND. Long periods of rest and
     relaxation protect your health and help your judgment which will result in profits
     later."

     "THE BEST WAY TO TRADE: The most money is made by swing trading, or in the
     long pull trades, that is following a definite trend as long as the market trend is up or
     down, you must learn by rules to wait until the market gets out of a rut or a trading
     range. Wait for a definite indication that it is going higher or lower, before you take a
     position for a long pull trade. Always figure that YOU CAN BE WRONG and that the
     market could reverse. Therefore, follow your profits up with a STOP LOSS ORDER,
     or get out when you get a definite indication that the market has reached a turning
     point and that the trend is changing."

As a picture is worth a thousand words we will now look at some charts. Please examine
each chart closely as there are some important points on them.




Gann's main trading philosophy was to trade with a close stop loss and select the most
opportune trades in the direction of the main trend. To confirm a trend was in progress, he
would look for lower highs and higher lows to form after a major reversal in trend. The
method he used to monitor trends and filter out any random market noise was the Swing
Chart. Figure 1 shows an example of a Swing chart. After July 30 1996 Gann would have
said the trend in the SPI was up as it was making higher lows and higher highs. Gann
would be a buyer of the SPI from 2170.

Gann placed a lot of importance on the daily price patterns. He talked at length on the
different types of reversal patterns you can use to identify an imbalance between supply
and demand.

Figure - 2 shows some of the bar chart patterns Gann looked for to confirm turning points
or to get him out of trades quickly with minimal loss.
Gann taught students to face the facts and eliminate hope and fear. For instance, if a
trader receives a margin call, he should close the position immediately, for the chances are
he is wrong. He also taught that a successful trader studies human nature and does the
opposite of what the general public does. Most traders lose money because they are too
greedy, they over trade, they expect abnormal profits in normal markets.

Gann's analysis techniques for predicting major market tops and bottoms were based on
cycles. Gann believed that the future was only a repetition of the past. Gann maintained
that as each new generation exerted its influence on the markets similar bull and bear
markets would unfold.
Gann's 20 year cycle relies on the fact that human nature never changes. Therefore as
each new generation came to power they would behave similarly. Their inexperience in
speculation would cause markets to rise and fall to prices unwarranted by supply and
demand. The result is that when the BOOM is over, the young generation suffer severe
losses, get some valuable experience and are not eager to try it again. To predict a top or
bottom for the year Gann would look at the market activity in the years back 10, 20, 30, 40,
50, 60 and 100 years for similar conditions.

The first basic technique Gann taught students was to watch anniversary dates with past
market tops and bottoms for a change in trend. When it came to shorter term analysis of
time, Gann devised a system of counting off time in solar degrees of a year from past
market tops and bottoms. He counted divisions of the year in eighths and thirds. When
clusters of time counts from past tops and bottoms highlighted a future date, that date was
significant for a reversal of trend.

Figure -3 shows the major anniversaries in the All Ordinaries
The cycle of one year has 365 days. The circle of one year has 360 degrees. The Earth
revolves around the Sun in an elliptical path moving closer to and away from the Sun
during its orbit. This is the reason the days and degrees relationships speed up and slow
down. To explain, there are 4 cardinal points in the circle, 90, 180, 270 and 360 degrees.

                                                                      As the Earth
                                                                      moves around the
                                                                      Sun the daylight
                                                                      hours
                                                                      progressively get
                                                                      longer and
                                                                      shorter every six
                                                                      months. The
                                                                      shortest day of
                                                                      the year in the
                                                                      Southern
                                                                      hemisphere is
                                                                      June 21, (in the
                                                                      Northern
                                                                      hemisphere it's
                                                                      the longest day),
                                                                      the shortest day
                                                                      is known as the
                                                                      Winter Solstice
                                                                      (this is 270o). The
                                                                      longest day of the
                                                                      year is December
                                                                      22, 90o, the
                                                                      summer solstice.
                    o                   o
September 21 (360 ) and March 21 (180 ) are the days when daylight and darkness are
equal, these are the Equinoxes.
........
The four seasons of the year evolve around these 4 points. Some people may recognise
these cardinal points at angles 180 degrees opposed to this explanation.



Refer to Figure - 4 and note that the 2310 high in late August 96 came on 1.75 (1 and 3/4
years) x 360o or 630o solar degrees from the November 23 1994 Low at 1793.




It is important to realize that the Earth takes 179 days to move from 0o to 180o around the
Sun. Yet, it takes 186 days to move from 180o to 360o around the Sun.
The two points in the circle, of one year, where the relationships between days and
degrees begin speeding up and slowing down are the perigee and the apogee. The
perigee (distance to the Sun is closest) occurs about January 3 each year, the apogee
(distance to the Sun is furthermost) occurs July 4 each year.

When comparing cycles it is preferable to work in degrees for greater accuracy, for this you
need to use an ephemeris or a computer program, such as CycleTrader, capable of
calculating degrees precisely.

Gann developed a unique method of squaring price to time and time to price. He taught
that every stock or commodity maintained a vibration where there was a relationship
between 1 degree of price to 1 degree of time. The difficulty with many stocks and
commodities is in finding what value represents 1 degree of price. For the purposes of this
demonstration I have used the All Ordinaries Index and used 1 unit of price to 1 unit of
time.

A market can square price to time in several different ways.

1. Price units in a trend equal time units in a trend.
2. Base price equals time units to a new change in trend.
3. Prior price range equals times units to a new change in trend.
4. Prior time units equals next price range to a new change in trend.
5. Current price equals time units from a prior change in trend. (zero angle).

To keep a track of the position of his price to time he would draw GANN ANGLES up from
lows and down from highs. He also used 4 to 1, 2 to 1, 1 to 2 and 1 to 4 angles. 1-4 means
1 unit of time to 1/4 unit of price.

If you study Figure 5 carefully you will see an example of each of the methods Gann used
to determine when a change in trend could eventuate.




Gann placed extreme importance on squaring between price ranges, these could be
retracement levels or alternating campaigns. The All Ordinaries Index between 1991 and
1994 is a perfect example of squaring between price ranges.

See Figure - 6. Range 2 is 2 times range 1.
The example in Figure - 7 epitomizes everything about Gann's knowledge of order within
the market. The time by degrees in each alternate trend "squared" between extreme tops
and bottoms. This example should get any trader's or analyst's attention.
When I first read Gann's words, "Time is the most important indicator. When time is up the

market must change trend." I crossed the threshold of market knowledge, inspired to learn
more.
Ever since, I have been rewarded with a knowledge allowing me the patience to wait for
the
major setups to trade. The principals illustrated here will work with all degree of market
trends, anything from 7 days to 5 years.




 Most analysts should be familiar with price retracement levels acting as support or
resistance between trends of similar degree. Gann taught his students to measure prior
price ranges and divide them into 1/8ths and 1/3rds, these levels can act as support in a
downtrend or resistance in an uptrend. When a market reaches these levels and reverses,
all the trader has to do to verify a trend change is to look for a clustering of time cycles on
that day. Gann angles also determine
time & price intersections. Figure - 8 shows the recent 2086 low in the SPI on July 17
achieving an exact 50% retracement and the March 11 post election panic low at 2158 was
on a 37.5% retracement.
The day of 17th July 1996 when the SPI reversed trend on the 50% retracement of all the
gains made between 1994 and 1996 there were several important time cycles peaking. I
have shown 2, the time between the major lows in 1991 and 1992 was cycling 2.00 times
and the time between the 1992 low and the 1994 high was cycling 2.00. It is quite amazing
how the market continues to vibrate between highs and lows in a pure geometric form.
Most people do not realize how easy it is to identify time cycles in advance.

 The charts in this article were prepared using my personal WAVETRADER /
CYCLETRADER SOFTWARE. I designed and programmed this software to give me the
advantage I needed to beat the market. I have continually revised and upgraded my
software over years of new experiences. Now in 1996 I feel I have finally produced a tool
that gives me total control over my own trading destiny. Along the way I have made the
software available to other traders, and have been amply rewarded from their input. I have
found over the years there are a continuous number of new people entering the market
and losing money, some depart, others regroup and try to learn methods that will make
them successful traders. The bottom line nevertheless is each trader needs tools and
methodologies from which to formulate a low risk trading plan, one to follow mechanically
where the trade selection process remains similar. Once the trade selection process is
automated into a systematic approach, then the trader needs to have a workable money
management plan to ensure success.

Gann summed it up best with a set of rules to follow, his bottom line though was, "Do not
trade on guesswork or gamble on hope. Knowledge brings profits. Never trade without
STOP LOSS ORDERS."

I hope these brief and limited examples of technical analysis methods illustrate what is
possible, if you do a little work.

Bryce T. Gilmore
.
Bryce Gilmore is a private trader, analyst and the designer of the WaveTrader-CycleTrader software. The
software saves hours and weeks implementing every known time and price method attributed to the works of
W.D. Gann and R.N. Elliott. The software operates with MetaStocktm format and CSIM data base and comes
with a comprehensive 100 page manual.

Bryce also conducts occasional seminars on the Gold Coast of Queensland to teach people
how to analyze markets for themselves.

To purchase the WaveTrader/CycleTrader or any of Bryce's books or for more information on the Seminar call
Bryce at Gold Coast, Australia Intl 61-7- 5573 2283 (locals use 07) or email
gilmore@qldnet.com.au or see www.bryce-gilmore.com.

[C] 1999 Bryce Gilmore & Associates Pty Ltd
www.bryce-gilmore.com
