                         General Outlook for 2010

The basic forecast for the stock market in 2010 is lackluster at best. The
market may finish the year in positive territory, but currently would be more
inclined to forecast a flat to negative market. In the prior outlook for 2009,
we discussed and illustrated periodicity. The analogous time period selected
based on periodicity was the 1867 to 1907 era, which has done a very good
job of predicting the general trend of the market thus far. The charts below
provide a graphic view of the results to the present time of this writing.




                                                     The Current Market
shown in red, 1867 pattern shown in black.


                                                                                 1
                                          100-yr Cycle


         While we are on the subject of periodicity, it is also interesting to point out
         that the market has also been following or “repeating” the 100-year cycle
         closely as well. This is a time period that W.D. Gann mentioned quite often
         in his stock market forecasting courses due to its decennial relationship to
         the present and is often a useful time period to observe for possible
         synchronicity. Below I have circled the areas on the periodicity chart to
         illustrate that 100-years ago is simply an inverse image of the current time
         period, which is a possible reason why it is matching up well with 2009.

100000




10000




 1000




  100




   10




    1
           900131
           941231
           991130
           041031
           090930
           140831
           190731
           240630
           290531
           340430
           390331
           440228
           490131
           531231
           581130
           631031
           680930
           730831
           780731
           830630
           880531
           930429
           980331
           030228
           080131
           121231
           180330
           230228
           280131
           321231
           371130
           421031
           470930
           520829
           570731
           620629
           670531
           720428
           770331
           820226
           870130
           911231
         11/29/199
         10/31/200
          9/1/2006
          8/1/2011




   0.1




         The following page illustrates a close up view of the 1909 market to aid us
         in making a comparison to the 2009 market and then forward through 2010.


                                                                                           2
The 1909 cycle once again called for extreme lows to be reached in March
of the year, which as we all know is accurate. The market steadily advances
into the October-November (2009) time period, which is also a good match.
Both the 100-year pattern and 1877 pattern call for steady declines into Jan-
Feb 2010. The SPX-M9 forecast, which will be presented later, also paints
the same picture of a declining market from Oct-Nov into Jan-Feb 2010. The
only area where the 1877 pattern and the 100-yr pattern have discrepancy is
an anticipated 1-month rally from May to June, which is shown in the 1877
market sequence. The following page compares a “zoom in” of the 1-year
periods corresponding to 2010.


                                                                                3
4
In general both sequences are weak or declining from Oct 2009 into Jan/Feb
2010. Both advance into March 2010. Both steadily decline into May 2010.
Both have flat sideways consolidation periods from July to August. Both are
indicating a declining market from June into September 2010. Both agree
that there is a short rally from the Sept-Oct lows into November. Neither
forecasting pattern is what one would consider “Bullish.” Overall, both
sequences indicate a weaker stock market for the year 2010.


                   10-Yr, 41-Month & 24-Month Cycles


As discussed on pages 17-18 of the 2009 outlook, we cannot overlook the
importance of the 10-year, 41-month and 24-month cycles when it comes to
forecasting the general trend and direction of the stock market. The
influence of these 3-cycles often predominates the entire trend when looking
at 5-year sections of the market. There are of course other cyclic influences,
but these 3 can never be ignored. The chart on the following page is very
similar to the 100-year pattern shown (1909-1910) on the prior page and is
also indicating a steadily declining market from Fall 2009 (Sept-Nov) into
the season of Fall 2010 (Sept-Nov). Thus far, all indications are basically
saying that the market is cyclically weak and both cycles and periodicity
patterns indicate that the best buying opportunity for 2010 does not occur
until very late in the season, most likely not until October or November.
Gann also stated that Bear markets often run 5 years down – the first move 2
years down (10/07 to 3/09), then 1 year up (2009), and 2 years down again
(anticipating a Low in 2012), completing the 5-year downswing. As stated in
prior Outlooks, this is astronomically based and not based on calendar years.



                                                                                 5
The above cycles and composite wave are also indicating the likelihood of a
“Double Dip” recession going into the year 2012.This will “in my opinion”
be the result of very high unemployment & a weak dollar that eats away at
businesses ability to turn a profit as people tighten their belts in mass. We
are of course talking about real unemployment and not the optimistically
biased figures that the government uses to gage this economic indicator.
Basically, there is a “HUGE” discrepancy between real unemployment and
the “official” figures because once a person is no longer eligible for
unemployment benefits, they are no longer included as unemployed




                                                                                6
regardless of the fact that they are not working. This number of unemployed
is sometimes referred to as disgruntled workers.


The SpxM9 forecast from Wheels Within Wheels also calls for a weaker
market in 2010. As was stated in the 2009 forecast, this particular cyclic
model was never truly intended to forecast more than 7-years forward, as I
don’t like to project more than 25% to 33% of the historical data into the
future. This monthly model was constructed on 20 years of historical data,
so my most aggressive anticipation was for it to work well for the next 6.6-
years (20 * 33%), which it has done. As they say, “if its not broke, then
don’t fix it.” This model has continued to call the market with good
accuracy, so it is included again as a supporting piece.




This model is calling for lower lows and lower highs for nearly the entire
year, which again supports the “lackluster” theme discussed in the beginning
of this report. According to this model, the year finishes strong with a
powerful December rally that lasts into February 2011, but overall matches


                                                                               7
the other sequences already discussed. Due to the flat or sideways nature of
larger cycles and the downward influence of the: 10-year, 41-month and 24-
month cycles, the 5-month cycle is likely to continue as a strong short-term
influence over the market. The predicted trends or swings from this cycle are
presented below. This information is more useful to shorter-term traders who
like to take multiple directional trades each year.




On page 19 of the 2009 outlook, we stated that the “Best Periods to Purchase
Stocks” in 2009 were: “indicated as the potential low on March 12th to the
top indicated on June 8th. The next opportunity is likely to be the projected
July 10th lows holding stocks into the projected top on October 7th.” While
this timing was not exact to the day, the general prediction worked out very
well. The following chart provides an overview summary of the results to
date (Oct.09) for the 2009 forecast. Overall, the forecast was quite accurate
in terms of timing and trend direction. As was said in the prior outlooks,

                                                                                8
prediction is an art based on some scientific principals, which can often
produce uncanny results. I have been pretty consistent in making these
forecasts for many years, but eventually I will simply be wrong.




           BULL AND BEAR CALENDAR YEARS
  By studying the yearly high and low chart and going back over a long
period of time, you will see the years in which bull markets culminate and
              the years in which bear markets begin and end.


   Each decade or 10-year cycle, which is 1/10th of 100 years, marks an
important campaign. The digits from 1 to 9 are important. All you have to
learn is to count the digits on your fingers in order to ascertain what kind
                  of a year the market is in.—W.D. Gann

                                                                            9
No. 1 in a new decade is a year in which a bear market ends and a bull
market begins. Look up 1901, 1911, 1921.


No. 2 or the second year, is a year of a minor bull market, or a rally in a bear
market will start at some time. See 1902, 1912, 1922, 1932.


No. 3 starts a bear year, but the rally from the 2nd year may run to March or
April before culmination, or a decline from the 2nd year may run down and
make bottom in February or March, like 1933. Look up 1903, 1913, 1923.


No. 4 or the 4th year, is a bear year, but ends the bear cycle and lays the
foundation for a bull market. Compare 1904, 1914.


No. 5 or the 5th year, is the year of Ascension, and a very strong year for a
bull market. See 1905, 1915, 1925, 1935.


No. 6 is a bull year, in which a bull campaign which started in the 4th year
ends in the Fall of the year and a fast decline starts. See 1896, 1906, 1916,
1926.


No. 7 is a bear number and the 7th year is a bear year, because 84 months or
84 ¾ degrees is 7/8 of 90. See 1897, 1907, 1917, but note 1927 was end of a
60-year cycle, so not much decline.


No. 8 is generally a bull year. Prices start advancing in the 7th year and
reach the 90th month in the 8th year. This is very strong and a big advance
usually takes place. Review 1898, 1908, 1918, 1928. Personal note: In Bear

                                                                                10
market cycles, the 8th year can produce very strong declines. For example:
the 10-year cycle (Saturn) topped on March 1998 beginning its “Bear
Market” phase into October 2002. The decline from July of 1998 to Sept 1st
was over 20%, one of the largest corrections since 1987. The year 2008 also
occurred after the 10-year cycle topped in October of 2007, which caused a
steady market decline throughout the entire year lasting into March 2009.
Therefore, one must understand that “in general” these decennial rules Gann
has outlined are very useful, but one must also fully understand the
underlying cycles from which his rules are based upon.


No. 9 the highest digit and the 9th year, is the strongest of all for the bull
markets. Final bull campaigns culminate in this year after extreme advances
and prices start to decline. Bear markets usually start in September to
November at the end of the 9th year and a sharp decline takes place. See
1869, 1879, 1889, 1899, 1909, 1919, and 1929 – the year of the greatest
advances, culminating in the fall of the year, followed by a sharp decline.
No. 10 is a bear year. A rally often runs until March and April; then a
severe decline runs to November and December, when a new cycle begins
and another rally starts. See 1910, 1920, 1930. Note how well this is
matching our current forecast! We are anticipating declines from Oct/Nov
2009 into Jan/Feb 2010, followed by a short rally into March and steady
declines into at September/October 2010.


In referring to these numbers and these years, we mean the calendar years.
To understand this, study each 9-year section: 1891 to 1900, 1901 to 1910,
1911 to 1920, 1921 to 1930, and 1931 to 1939.



                                                                                 11
The 10-year cycle continues to repeat over and over, but the greatest
advances and declines occur at the end of the 20-year and 30-year cycles,
and again at the end of the 50-year and 60-year cycles, which are stronger
than the others.---W.D. Gann     Master Time Factor & Forecasting by
Mathematical Rules.


Still Relevant Information from Page 23-24 of the 2009 outlook:
The current cyclic picture for longer-term investing suggests that one should
primarily accumulate (1) high dividend yielding stocks, (2) The Dogs of the
Dow Strategy and (3) Growth Stocks showing strong comparative strength
as illustrated at the beginning of this report. You can also weed out several
high dividend-yielding stocks using comparative strength as well. Due to the
current phasing of the 24-month and 41-month cycles, the exit point or
holding period is to liquidate holdings in June 2011 anticipating a decline
into October 2012. To find high yield stocks, just search Google for high
dividend yielding stocks and you should find several sources of information.
For new or additional investing in 2010, the best buying opportunity is
currently indicated as a low occurring in the month of October, which
should then advance steadily into June 2011 if forecasting projections
remain accurate.
Real estate values are also reaching significant lows and there is an
opportunity to capture both high dividend yields and property value
appreciation. Long-term investors should investigate and consider specific
REITS (real estate investment trusts) for their portfolios as a long term
holding. Real Estate activity has a strong 18-year cycle and the current
subprime mortgage debacle is reminiscent of the Savings & Loan crisis,
which occurred 18-years ago. The Internet has several informational sources

                                                                                12
for REIT investing and it is recommended that you do the research prior to
making any investment decision.
The basic Gann Forecasting pattern shown and discussed in the 2008 and
2009 outlook reports also indicate a bull market top occurring in 2011,
which is also supported by Gann’s “forecasting by the digits” (pages 9-12 of
this report). Therefore, the preponderance of all information thus far is
suggesting that 2010 is a “Bear Market” year with lows likely occurring in
October and then generally advancing into June 2011.




The Mass Pressure Forecast is also very bearish for 2010 as only 3 years
(ending in “0’s”) out of the past 100 have finished in positive territory. The
most bullish years being 1940 and 1980, which both ended the year with
about 17% gains. The year 1970 was flat, ending the year where it basically




                                                                             13
began in January. The vast majority of these decennial years all ended down
10% or more and many continued their weakness throughout the entire year.




                                                                         14
The Mass Pressure pattern for 2010 is weak from the very beginning of the
year into late February. It advances into mid-April and then declines steadily
into late June, early July. From these lows it advances into late August, then
declines through mid-October. It remains relatively flat with a final decline
into mid-December and a year-end rally to finish the month.




 Generally speaking this pattern matches Gann’s description of years ending
in “0” and supports the prior charts that have already been presented in this
outlook for 2010. The Mass pressure chart also suggests that if the lows in
October are breached to the downside, that the year-end rally will likely be
strong enough to get you back into positive territory on your holdings.
Readers should note that this also matches the SPXM9 forecast for 2010.


The Shorter cycles which were presented on pages 18-19 of the 2009
outlook paint a strikingly similar pattern to the Mass Pressure Forecast.


                                                                               15
Anticipated short-term turns or Changes in Trend.
1/11/2010
2/5/2010
2/27/2010
4/12/2010
5/15/2010
5/25/2010
7/3/2010
8/10/2010
9/7/2010
9/23/2010
11/1/2010
12/10/2010


                                                    16
IMPORTANT DATES FOR CHANGE IN THE MAJOR TREND


The following dates should be watched for important changes in the major
trend of all individual stocks and stock market averages or indices. If any
stock makes top or bottom around any of these dates, you can anticipate a
reversal in trend, especially if there is a sharp decline or a sharp advance
around these dates: Feb 8th to 10th, March 21st to 23rd, May 3rd to 7th,
June 20th to 24th, August 3rd to 8th, Sept 21st to 24th, Nov. 8th to 11th,
Dec. 20th to 24th. These dates are based upon a permanent cycle, which
does not change (shown below, also see 2008 outlook). Important tops and
bottoms are made in many stocks every year around these times. Watch the
stocks that reach extreme high or low levels around these natural dates.




                                                                               17
The seasonal or permanent cycle dates are simply natural harmonic divisions
of the calendar year based on the Solar Cycle: Vernal Equinox, Summer
Solstice, Autumnal Equinox, Winter Solstice and their half way points,
which can be seen on every one of Gann’s charts and calculators (Square of
4, Hexagon, Circle Chart, Square of Nine, etc.) Using the natural divisions
of the year based on progressively dividing by 2 will provide the 1/16th and
1/32 harmonics as well. When the price scale is also based upon natural
harmonic divisions of a base 10 counting system (10, 100, 1000, 10,000,
etc.) all of Gann’s geometric angles reveal themselves as useful tools
opposed to the outdated rules he provided in his courses. The 45-deg angle
for example is not 1 point per day. It is one unit of price per one unit of time.
This material was covered in the 2008 outlook, which is available as a free
download at Sacred Science. It is suggested that you review this resource to
gain a better understanding of Gann’s use of geometric angles.




                                                                              18
January Effect: You should watch and compare the first weak of January’s
close price to the last week as a simple indication of trend for the year. If the
last week closes higher than the 1st week, this typically indicates that the end
of the year will also finish higher than the beginning of the year. If the last
week is lower than the first week, it suggests that the entire year will likely
be down or struggle throughout the year.


The Economy- The economy was due to reach its lowest point in the 18.6-
yr cycle around December 2008 to early 2009. From here it is anticipated to
begin slowly improving back to normal conditions into June-July 2013. As
discussed in the 2009 outlook, we are in Section “K” and “A” of Gann’s
financial table, which calls for: “Extreme low stock prices, strikes, recession,
despair, beginning of new business generation for 18-3/5 years. 4 years of
rising stock prices and improving business, markets bare of goods. Young
men becoming prominent. Along with: strikes, unemployment and many
prominent deaths. In prior published materials I have written the following:
“In general, the economy usually runs in cycles of 4.65 years or 4-years and
8-months if you prefer. As a basic rule, the economy will advance above
normal for 4.65 years, then decline back to more normal levels over the next
4.65, then drop to below normal over the next 4.65 years and then return
back to normal, where the business cycle starts all over again. This cycle in
total measures about 18.6 years. Under this basic scenario, the economy
was due to reach a peak in it’s above normal phase in August of 1999. It
should continue to decline for 9.3 years (9-years 4-months) where it will
reach it’s below normal level. So this basically means that economic
conditions will slowly decay until at least December of the year 2008, when
conditions will start to improve again. This cycle is harder to find in

                                                                                  19
economic data because of the “Wealth Effect” that is created in strong bull
markets, which tends to somewhat hide this cycle. The chart on the following
page is a useful reference piece for following this economic patter or cycle.




PUBLIC CONFIDENCE FOR 2010: Public confidence for 2010 will be
tested again as the economy shows signs of wavering & instability due to
increasing unemployment and slower than expected business recovery rates.
News of layoffs, poor sales, business failures, etc. will continue to weigh
heavy on the minds of the masses as the hangover subsides from 2008.
However, Regardless of how the stock market performs, the economic
environment will still be recovering from the “ills” of the lows of this 18.6-



                                                                              20
year cycle. Although the cycle bottom is in, it will take time before things
significantly improve. The next two years will likely see many “Labor
Pains” similar to 1978-82 as we transition from one economic period to the
next. There are many problems that have been brushed under the
carpet that will surely be revealed as we go into 2012. Home sales have
improved, but only because many can no longer afford to live in their homes
and they have been sold in foreclosure auctions or on the cheap in
desperation. The chart below depicts an astrological model of economic
activity that has been useful for anticipating the peaks & troughs of the
overall environment as well as the general trend of the stock market.




This model also suggests that there are still many problems with our
“economic recovery” that will cause a decline into 2012-2013. The stock
market is often a leading indicator of the economy, which can cause it to
either peak or trough as scheduled but also earlier than the projected times.



                                                                                21
Federal Reserve: I encourage all readers to watch or purchase the book The
Creature from Jekyll Island. You can watch the speech on YouTube. The
current link to the 1st segment is http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7auQEXTWomA
There are 12 parts to the entire speech, but its worth seeing. Also search
“Federal Reserve” on YouTube and watch the “Zeitgeist” pieces on the
Fed. I personally don’t agree with their 9/11 conspiracy theories, but the
information on the Federal Reserve is very compelling and informative,
whether you choose to agree or disagree. The current link is:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_dmPchuXIXQ



WAR: Overall, our nations prosperity causes jealousy throughout the world,
and as economic conditions get worse domestically and in foreign countries,
greed and jealousy will lead to greater resentment and potentially war. As
the old saying goes; “It is the hungry dog that starts the fight.” A study of the
rise and fall of nations shows that when any country enjoys unusual
prosperity for a long period of time, war is one of the main causes of the
start of recessions. While most Americans grow tired of the situation in Iraq
and the so called “War on Terror”, we will likely hear a lot of talk about
peace from our newly elected leader. However, the facts show that many of
the leading foreign countries as well as our own country, are spending more
money preparing for war than they are for peace. Gann wrote: “When a man
or a country is armed and gets ready to fight, he usually gets what he is
ready for.” Although 2008 is unlikely to see any further escalation of war,
cycles indicate that 2009 to 2010 could see a rise in international warfare
ending with more peaceful and prosperous times beginning in 2010.




                                                                                22
The Dollar: Despite cycles turning up in 2008 and nearly a 30% advance
into November 2008 from the all time lows, the dollar has once again started
a downward slide. The summation of cycles are still positive into March-
April 2010, but from this point forward they indicate a downward trend to
potentially new all time lows around April of the year 2012. This can cause
some serious problems with China & the United States, as China is the
largest holder of US-treasuries. Long term, this relationship in my opinion
could get very ugly if China isn’t compensated fairly in some way!




Read “Washington’s Secret War on the Dollar”----------The link is:
http://www.uncommonwisdomdaily.com/washingtons-secret-war-on-the-
dollar-4-7266
Consider the fact that the US-Dollar has lost nearly 95% of its value
since we came off the Gold Standard under Nixon in 1971.


"Would You Accept Scrip for Pay?"--- Article by Peter Ragnar



                                                                         23
Mr. Harris and his wife lived in an abandoned railroad car. Now don’t think
they were that poor - actually, they were quite a bit better off than their
neighbors. President Kennedy had toured these very same hills and hollows
in the mid 1960’s, shortly before I arrived.


"I had volunteered to go and live in the coal fields of West Virginia."


What John Kennedy saw made him shudder; thus began the war on poverty.
What I saw were human hearts begging for a better life. Mr. Harris and his
wife became the eyes and ears of a world I never knew existed – in America.


"Like I said, didn't think they were that poor..." (and you wouldn’t have after
you saw their neighbors). Almost every weekend, I’d have supper with
them. The old caboose at the end of an abandoned railroad siding had pretty
flowers planted around it. The coal stove had a ready supply of fuel, since
all one had to do was walk along the tracks and pick it up. The Harris’ had
also planted a garden. Mr. Harris was a tall, gaunt man who appeared much
older than his years. Coal dust tattoos a miner’s body and gives them that
tell-tale little cough. We used to joke, “here the men wore mascara and the
women wore tears!” Nobody thought it was funny, really. Accepting reality
(for some) was just making an attempt to cope.


"Nearby were long rows of vacant company houses – little ghost towns here
and there."




                                                                            24
Joyless children, expressionless women and men, the crippled and able
hoping for another chance to work in darkness. Those who had a job still
didn’t have what you and I consider as money. They were paid in scrip.


"Scrip is a certificate of a right to receive something..."


...Something like groceries or clothes from the coal company’s store. Scrip
was usually brass tokens with the company’s stamp on them.           As an
example, I have a one-dollar piece from the Logan County Coal Corporation
that states, “Payable in Merchandise Only – Not Transferable”. (As a side
note, their company town of Lundale, WV was washed away when a slag
pond gave out).      I’ve got another piece of scrip from a coal-owned
Hugheston Lumber Company, and ones from Kopper Stores, The New River
Company, etc, etc,… Actually, back in the 60’s I bought my groceries with
scrip. Federal Reserve notes? What’s that?


"Well, no one really liked scrip."


Why? Because it wasn’t backed by anything, and the coal barons could
make as many pieces as they liked. If they decided to give you a raise, they
would simply give you more scrip and you felt pretty good about it… until
you noticed that the prices in the company store just went up as well. Would
you accept scrip for pay?       Before you shout “NO!”…. look in your
pocketbook or wallet.


Yes indeed, it’s paper scrip! Printed by the paper barons of the Federal
Reserve – which is a company just as private as any coal company and just

                                                                         25
as empty of reserves of anything of true value. Now, which would you
rather have – scrip, or real money?


"The U.S. Constitution plainly states that only silver or gold can be used
for money – period!" (Note: in 1933 when President Franklin D. Roosevelt outlawed
private gold ownership)



In the December 8th issue of Forbes Magazine, we saw one bank failure
after another as of November 21st, we’ve had 49 banks go under, with
hundreds of branch offices. The only thing that saved the nation from
hyperinflation was the fact that the dollar was backed by gold at this time. If
it hadn’t been, America as we know it would have collapsed. Knowing that,
finance ministers and delegates from other nations came together in 1944 at
Bretton Woods, NH. Forbes writes: “Bretton Woods fixed the dollar to
gold, and other currencies were then fixed to the dollar. Devaluations and
revaluations were resisted and thus, rare. There were no more floating
currencies.”
"The article goes on to reinforce the idea of once again establishing the link
between the U.S. dollar and gold."


It’s the only thing that will save us from hyperinflation and an inevitable
collapse. In a recent article in the Wall Street Journal by Judy Shelton, she
calls it a “Golden Idea”, and that brings up the question of what Obama will
propose at the next G-20 meeting with heads of these nations. Quoting
Shelton,“Ironically, it was French president Charles de Gaulle who best
made the case in the 1960’s. Worried that the U.S. would be tempted to
abuse its role as a key currency issuer by exporting domestic inflation, he


                                                                              26
called for the return to a classical international gold standard. 'Gold,' he
observed, 'has no nationality.'” "Since we now live in a global economy, the
world leaders realize that the “domino effect” is very real and immediate, as
we’ve just experienced."


Problems here in the U.S. affect the markets of the entire world. The choice
is basically scrip, or gold. Just imagine the buying power of your 1970’s
dollars compared to today. When Nixon disconnected the dollar from gold,
the dollar still bought a new car for just a little over a thousand dollars or so.
That means you should be able to buy a luxury hybrid Lexus for a couple
thousand – not $104,000. Alas, that’s not the case, because paper money
eroded rapidly in value without its link to gold. Now, with us pushing
eleven trillion dollars in debt (check the national debt clock online), we will
either inflate ourselves into oblivion or return to a gold standard.


"Consider this: if the government and banks could only issue gold-
backed scrip, how much would your gold be worth?"


And if I’m wrong about a return to a gold standard, then learn to live like the
Harris’ – your paper scrip can at least be used for toilet paper.


Really now, would you accept scrip for pay, or would you rather have real
money – gold?-----I thought slavery was abolished in 1865! Perhaps
indentured servant is a more accurate & appropriate term for the
current scenario regarding our currency and tax obligations.




                                                                               27
The above article fits well with The Creature From Jekyll Island and the
video presentations concerning the Federal Reserve that are available on
YouTube. It really makes one wonder if all the recent physical changes in
our currency are designed to simply and effectively desensitize the
population to the possibility of drastically demonetizing the dollar or
scraping it altogether for a totally new currency like the “Amero” (Unified
North American Currency)? A recent line in the National Ledger reads:
"Our currency will be replaced with the "Amero." And, we'll be one giant
step closer to the U.N.'s perverse dream of a one-world government."
http://www.gold-eagle.com/editorials_05/kirby062806pv.html




2010 Monthly outlook based on historical patterns

 These monthly curves represent historical trends and turning points to help
short term traders identify potential trend changes and/or other reversals.
The time of the change tends to be more accurate then the direction, but
overall, these should provide you with useful information. The best approach
is to use all tools available. Aggressive traders should buy all lows that are
10% below the last swing high if the “Market Opportunist” breadth indicator
is –400 or lower. Market tops are more difficult to identify but typically this
indicator is pretty accurate during Bear Market phases so watch +400
readings or greater for potential selling indications. Always take the
perspective of TIME into account to determine if these technical indications
are occurring at the anticipated points in time. Those of you who own Keys
to Successful Speculation should follow the swing trade and money
management rules to maximize profits while keeping losses in check.
http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/Keys.htm




                                                                              28
29
30
31
32
33
Wishing You A Success,


Daniel Ferrera

                         34
“Past performance is not indicative of future results”. You should understand that there is considerable risk
of loss in the Stock Markets, Futures Markets and Option markets. Neither I, nor anyone else involved in
the production of this material, will be liable for any loss, damage or liability directly or indirectly caused
by the usage of this material. The data used in this material is believed to be from reliable sources but
cannot be guaranteed. The projection methods and/or timing techniques contained in this document are not
to be taken as “investment advice”. Ultimately, you are responsible for all of your investment decisions. If
you are unwilling to accept this responsibility, then you should not invest in the financial markets at all.
The outlook for 2009 is being presented educational information designed for entertainment purposes only.
It is understood that nobody can accurately forecast the future with any reliability.


http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/Keys.htm
http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/squareof9.htm
http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/gannanalysis.htm
http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/WheelsCourse.htm


         Dow                         Geometric Angles                                S&P500


1 x 2 = 3.74 pts/day                                                       1 x 2 = 0.625 pts/day
1 x 1 = 7.48 pts/day                                                       1 x 1 = 1.25 pts/day
2 x 1 = 14.97 pts/day                                                      2 x 1 = 2.5 pts/day
3 x 1 = 22.46 pts/day                                                      3 x 1 = 3.75 pts/day
4 x 1 = 29.95 pts/day                                                      4 x 1 = 5.00 pts/day


These are all based on calendar days, not trading days so adjust your charts
accordingly. Those who utilize these angles on their charts will find them of
value. Particularly in combination with other trading tools.




                                                                                                               35
                   Timing Important Stock Market Bottoms

Because my books really do not provide any exact “trading systems”, I have received posts from a certain
skeptics regarding whether I know how to trade or not. The bottom line is, “It does not matter whether I
know how to trade, because that will not improve your account balance”! The only thing that matters is
YOUR bottom Line. That said, I feel that I owe my readers and course owners something a little extra.
Especially for those that have purchased all of my works. The following is an attempt to say Thank You for
your loyalty and patronage. Please do not share this with others, or post it on any other board. I will
eventually find out, and will probably not make any future posts of this type again if this happens. Instead, I
would prefer referrals to my books, as anyone that purchases any of my books, would have access to this
information. This is a mechanical system and is not to be considered as investment advice. It is ultimately
your choice to use it or not to use it. You should never trade or invest with funds that you cannot afford to
loose.


The following is a simple Buy only system, that I call “Opportunist”. It requires the daily close of the
S&P500, NYSE advancing issues & declining issues. Each day, subtract the declining issues from the
advancing issues (Advance – Decline). We will call the difference Net Breadth (Advance – Decline = Net
Breadth). Construct an 18-period moving average of Net Breadth. This is a simple Moving Average, which
is just the past 18-days added together and divided by 18 to produce an average eighteen-day value. When
Net Breadth is negative 400 or lower, a buy signal is possible if other filters are in place.


Swing Filter: The S&P500 must be down at least 14% from its last swing high in order to validate a Buy
signal. As an example, let’s say the market makes an all time high at 1000. It declines 20% to 800 and our
18-day moving average of Net Breath is less than negative 400. We will Buy Long as soon as the market
can post an up close, i.e. today’s close is greater than yesterday’s close. Now, lets say the market goes up
16% to 928. This becomes our new swing high. If the market falls 14% or more from 928 and the moving
average of Net Breadth falls below negative 400, we will get another buy signal.


Close Filter: The market must post a positive close after a 14% or greater decline in the S&P, and the
Average Net Breadth has fallen below negative 400.
The Chart on the following page illustrates the signals with Red Up Arrows for Buys. Obviously a
trailing stop or exit strategy must be developed on your part. Options are another good way to trade
these signals. Typically, the market will advance at least 14% as a minimum. The Buy signal after the
mini crash in 1990 is one exception to the rule. It only advanced 4.5% from the signal.

“Past performance is not indicative of future results”. You should understand that there is considerable risk
of loss in the Stock Markets, Futures Markets and Option markets. Neither I, nor anyone else involved in
the production of this material, will be liable for any loss, damage or liability directly or indirectly caused
by the usage of this material. The data used in this material is believed to be from reliable sources but
cannot be guaranteed. The technique contained this document is not to be taken as “investment advice”.
Ultimately, you are responsible for all of your investment decisions. If you are unwilling to accept this
responsibility, then you should not invest in the financial markets at all.




The charts on the following pages show other the Buy signals, which have occurred in the past 20-yrs.
                               The Re-Entry Rule

In the event that you get stopped out of your position, which could have potentially
happened in 1987, 1990, 1998 and possibly even the most recent Buy signal on 2/14/2003
depending on your risk management approach, you can re-enter Long, i.e. Buy again as
soon as the market closes above the lowest close that occurred in the prior Buy setup. A
few examples will make this perfectly clear. The charts on the following pages illustrate
the technique. Also, please notice the bullish divergence between a comparison of the
S&P500 and the Advance-Decline Line. The stock market makes new lows prior to the
re-entry signals, but the Advance-Decline Line is showing an up trend compared to the
last low.
Notice the Bullish Divergence at the re-entry point.




Here again, the market makes a new low, but the Advance-Decline line is showing a
bullish up-trend.
                         Now Available In Only 50 Copies…
                      The Spirals of Growth & Decay
        Exposing the Underlying Structure of the Financial Markets

                 Limited Edition of Only 50 Copies! Now Available!
                Don’t Miss Dan Ferrera’s Most Important Life’s Work!

Some of you longer term Ferrera customers may be aware of his most important work
called The Spirals of Growth & Decay, which was released in a limited edition of only 50 copies
back in 2005. Those of you who have come along since then may not be aware of this work,
which Dan considers to be the summation of his life’s research, and the basis for all of the other
research and forecasting that he does. Though he mentions cycles, Mass Pressure and other
techniques he uses in his Outlooks, really the very core insight that determines all of his big
picture projections and forecasts are based upon the principles contained in Spirals.

Dan always wanted to keep Spirals within a very small and exclusive group, hence the limited
edition of 50 copies put out 4 years ago. We discussed back then the possibility of doing a
second run of 50, but until now, Dan has never really wanted to do it. However he has finally
agreed to do a second limited edition of 50 copies. I should let you know that this course is not
cheap, the price tag is $10,000, but this work represents the core research and life work that
Dan spent 12 years developing, and which has led to all of his other insights and understanding
of the markets. I will not say more here, but have a few write-ups which give much greater
detail of the subject, some of which I will paste following. If you are interested in this work,
please contact me directly and I can share further details.

Best regards,
Brad Stewart
institute@sacredscience.com


From the Preface to Spirals of Growth & Decay, Exposing the Underlying
Structure of The Financial Markets:

When Dan and I first met back in 1998, we began an information exchange, which led to Dan
privately sharing his personal research material with me, and eventually two of my close
personal friends. The original version that I received was simply a hand written copy of notes
and theory comprising just 30 pages (anyone who knows Dan, knows that he does not waste
words) along with several examples of actual charts from various markets (corn, wheat,
soybeans, coffee, copper, natural gas, gold, lean hogs, Dow Jones, S&P500, NASDAQ, lumber,
live cattle, and some currencies).
In those 30 pages we all found what proved to be the single most fundamental and important
market insight that I, have ever seen, and this statement remains true to this very day. Now,
for a limited time, Dan is releasing this rarest of market insights to just a few others. Initially
this work was released in a limited edition of only 50 copies back in 2005. With the number of
new people who have come along since that time, we have received numerous inquiries as to
whether there would ever be a second printing offered to all the newcomers. Dan has finally
agreed to do a second limited edition of 50 copies, so that those who missed it initially have a
chance to study this key work.

In the years following this initial information exchange, as I shared with Dan the various works
published by the Sacred Science Institute, like those of Gann, Bayer, Baumring, and countless
dozens of other essential books, I was continually amazed at Dan’s uncanny ability to
immediately grasp what everyone considered to be some of the most complex and confusing
material in the world. Yet for some strange reason, Dan was continuously able to immediately
penetrate these cryptic texts and to synthesize their knowledge into comprehensible teachings
and techniques.

Most of you do not realize, that before this point in time, Dan had never studied Gann nor any
of the numerous other esoteric market masters many of us have studied. Dan’s work, prior to
this exposure, centered completely around what he then called his Wave Mechanics, the theory
that is elaborated and completely described in this book, Spirals of Growth & Decay. It was due
to the 10+ years of hard, deep, individual research that had led him to his unique discovery of
Wave Mechanics theory, that in my opinion, provided the basis for this uncanny ability to
understand other teachings in an extraordinarily brief period of time, while others before him
failed after years and years of vigorous effort.

Most people are quite surprised to learn that within just 6-9 months of his very first reading of
Gann, Dan wrote his excellent course, The Mysteries of Gann Analysis Unveiled!, which at that
time also included the material which was later elaborated into The Gann Pyramid, Square of
Nine Essentials. I feel this course still stands as the best interpretation and application of Gann’s
principles, so you can imagine my complete amazement when it came out of someone who had
done barely more than 6 months of Gann research.

As you begin reading this current work, you will quickly understand why Dan was able to
accomplish a feat that almost no Gann researcher had accomplished before him, and in a
period of time that it would take most people to simply read through Gann’s courses. His
personal research into his Wave Mechanics provided him with the foundational basis to digest
and comprehend these most technical ideas in a very brief time. I’ve been further surprised
with each of Dan’s new intellectual explorations, like his creation of a cyclic model of the Dow
in Wheels Within Wheels.

This book unravels the order behind the markets in its most pristine and exquisite beauty.
When you have finished this text, you will never again look at the markets in the same way.
Instead you will have a technical, structural vision of the simply elegant ordering sequence and
code of all financial markets.

The easiest way to describe what this book presents is by looking at it from an Elliot wave
standpoint, as that is what it is most similar. It’s about understanding the underlying price
wave structure behind the markets, and what kind of sequencing and ordering causes such
structure. Dan’s Spirals takes the Elliot idea and takes it 10 steps further, defining wave values,
giving consistent counts without random extensions, etc. He goes through 100 years of the
Dow breaking down this ordering process and showing it as an underlying type or
morphogenetic field or vibrational structure behind the structure.

There is not a timing element to it, but it integrates well with other timing projection systems
giving a price scaffolding behind the market. It’s like having a road map, so that you know
where you are in the fractal structures and where the growth MUST be going, and the
likelihood of the structure of the next phases of the markets. It is truly a profound insight. It’s
not a system, because it is not giving direct timing signals or triggers per say, which is why it
works so well with things like Dan’s Keys or Shrader’s Fibonacci, and some of the new
Hasbrouck astro timing elements, I think, will directly overlap with it to define the energetic
elements of the fields which are determining the wave structures…

So it’s a very important piece that anyone who wants to understand the big picture and order
shouldn’t be without, but takes some integrating with your own trading triggers and strategy…

All the best,
Brad Stewart


OTHER CUSTOMER FEEDBACK:

“I think the best book I have read, bar none, on wave theory was written by Dan Ferrera, The
Spirals of Growth & Decay, which takes a variation of Elliott wave theory further than anyone
else ever has, so that we, as traders, can understand it better.”

Greg Shrader, Trader’s World Interview Fall 2009


Hello everyone!

Let me share with you my thoughts on Dan's Spirals two weeks after I first read it. I hope this
might help those of you considering the purchase with making the right decision.
The first time I read the Spirals, I couldn't sleep the whole night: the first half of it I was just too
much engaged in reading to close the book before seeing the last page, and the second half of
the night I couldn't sleep as I realized the magnitude of what was revealed to me, and the
market and broad philosophical consequences of the paradigm presented in Spirals. I do not
hesitate to say that what Dan put into Spirals is of the same caliber to Market Science as
Newton's Laws of Motion were to physics, or Copernicus "De revolutionibus orbium
coelestium" was to the way of understanding the motion of planets.

This is it, nothing less: a beautifully pristine paradigm that has the power of an atomic bomb.

Let me share with you a quotation from the book by E. Derman ("My Life as a Quant") as it
perfectly well describes what Dan did for the Market Science: "We cannot simply look at the
world around us and deduce Newton's Laws or Maxwell's equations. Data on its own does not
speak. These equations were triumphs of the mind, abstracted from the world in some
miraculous confluence of hard thinking and deep intuition.

Their success confirmed that pure thought and beautiful mathematics have the power to
discover the most profound laws of the universe".

The material in Spirals is indeed one of the most profound (and at the same time pristinely
simple) laws explaining the behavior of ALL markets. If Dan ever decided to go public with this
discovery, he'd easily become the most famous technical analyst EVER, easily making all the
other KNOWN technical analysts and market 'gurus' look like children in the comparison.

Now, many of you must be asking themselves the same question I asked myself: if this is really
so powerful (the only adequate comparison is that of an atomic power plant - it has enough
power to feed you with 'electricity' for longer than you and your children walk on this Earth,
you just need to make sure that an atomic power in your hands does not transform into an
atomic bomb, due to your misuse of the power you received) why should anyone ever reveal
this??

Well, the answer is in the book (at the very end) so you can learn it if/when you get it, but let
me just say that it seems to be somehow related with Gann's story. Those of you interested in
Gann know that at the beginning of his trading career he said he’d not reveal his trading
method at ‘any price’. As we know, later on he changed his mind and released some of the
‘secrets’ – but it’s more proper to say he just showed directions and left some examples,
leaving all the work to be done by those seeking knowledge. I don’t remember the exact
quotation, but he it was something like ‘one should not hide the light he received from his
brothers’ (a very loose quotation). It’s not exactly the same with Dan, but it is also more of
spiritual rather than material nature. In this context the price should be seen rather as a way of
emphasizing that the material stands much above what you saw elsewhere, and – to some
extent – as a way of directing the material to those willing to do some sacrifice (i.e. pay an
amount that is significant). The other difference between Gann and Dan stuff is that Dan writes
in a very open manner, straight to the point, not leaving too much room for interpretation of
what he meant (but leaving a lot of hints as to directions of possible further research!).

In fact, this material is worth not only its weight in gold, not only Dan’s weight in gold, but the
weight of all his family (from medieval times) and all their belongings IN GOLD!!!.

After reading the Spirals I had to admit that the handful of people Dan showed his discovery
earlier (less than 5 people) had been right that this should never be revealed, at any price. I am
extremely happy to be in the group of those that saw the material, and I feel compelled to give
you my unbiased (well, this is still a personal opinion, so by definition it is not totally unbiased)
opinion on it.

Yours,
MG


Dear Brad,

I think that's one of the key things about Spiral's, that you start observing and letting the market
show you it's form, rather than trying to fit into certain parameters that we think it should
conform to. Absorbing this and taking the time to let it sink in allows one to consider what other
things the market will tell us if we simply observe. Under those circumstances, what seems
complex is indeed elegantly simple. I am also excited because Spiral's is potentially the missing
link to a phenomenon I found a couple years ago but have not fully explored of repeating 3 wave
patterns, where the time of each wave is nearly identical. I have not been able to figure out the
pattern in which the patterns repeat themselves, but I am hopeful Spiral's may help in this.
Interesting stuff. I have read and re-read the book a few times, and mostly just gone over the
ideas and concepts in my head. This has allowed me to really ponder and understand the
concepts and what the strengths and weaknesses may be of this analysis, before even trying to
apply it to a chart. Anyway, thanks again to you and Dan for making this available.

Best regards,
HJ

P.S. I am thoroughly enjoying the thought processes that have opened up as a result of Dan's
"Spirals..." material. I haven't been this inspired in years!

TO RECEIVE FURTHER INFORMATION OR TO ORDER SPIRALS:

CONTACT:
Brad Stewart
800-756-6141
institute@sacredscience.com
       DANIEL T. FERRERA’S BOOKS & COURSES
           FOR A COMPLETE LISTING OF ALL OF DAN FERRERA’S
                  BOOKS, COURSES, & ARTICLES, SEE:
              HTTP://WWW.SACREDSCIENCE.COM/FERRERA/




W.D. GANN’S MASS PRESSURE FORECASTING CHARTS
                                By Daniel T. Ferrera


This new book by Daniel T. Ferrera develops a theory of how Gann most probably
created his Mass Pressure Forecasting Charts.

“Of all the Gann forecasting techniques known, the Mass Pressure Formula has
been one of the most closely guarded secrets. In fact, there are very few “Gann
Experts” that even know how to create a Mass Pressure Chart or anything about
the nature of its construction. These charts are based entirely on Gann’s philosophy
that “the future is nothing but a repetition of the past.”

“Each year, W.D. Gann would draw up a stick figure forecast of the stock market
averages and various commodity futures in his Supply & Demand newsletter
service. He would provide commentary that would provide an outline of what he
expected the market to do. Gann said that the future was just a repetition of the past
and one needed only the right beginning to predict the future. In latter years, Gann
provided something he called the Mass Pressure Chart. In his advertisement for his
Master Mathematical Time Price and Trend Calculator, Gann said that he would
provide a Mass Pressure Chart for the upcoming year.”

“Based upon its vague description, the Mass Pressure Chart is supposed to indicate
bullish and bearish trends according to Gann’s Master Time Factor. I have talked
to many Gann experts about the Mass Pressure Chart and most have no clue as to
what it may be. I have never seen an actual original Mass Pressure Chart from W.D.
Gann and I do not know of anyone else who has come across one. This course
presents what I feel is most likely the solution to this question.”

Dan Ferrera.
                                COURSE CONTENTS

   !   Instructions for Using the Excel Mass Pressure Worksheet.        Pg. 1
   !   Mass Pressure Forecasting Article - Traders World Magazine Pg. 2-3
   !   W.D. Gann’s Mass Pressure Chart                                  Pg. 3-12
   !   W.D. Gann’s Secrets to Forecasting                               Pg. 12-15
   !   Forecasting Monthly Moves                                        Pg. 15-16
   !   Special Stock Market Cycle Report I (Free Bonus)                 Pg. 17-28
   !   Special Wheat Cycle Report (Free Bonus)                          Pg. 29-35
   !   W.D. Gann’s Annual Forecasts                                     Appendix 1
   !   W.D. Gann’s Original Forecasting Course                          Appendix 2
   !   W.D. Gann’s Supply & Demand Letter – General Outlook.            Appendix 3


CAT#495 $195.00 HARDCOVER W/CD ROM
TO ORDER CLICK HERE:
http://www.sacredscience.com/store/commerce.cgi?product=FER



   W.D. GANN’S MASS PRESSURE FORECASTING TECHNIQUE
        (ARTICLE FROM TRADER’S WORLD MAGAZINE)
Of all the Gann forecasting techniques known, the Mass Pressure Formula has been
one of the most closely guarded secrets. In fact, there are very few “Gann Experts”
that even know how to create a Mass Pressure Chart or anything about the nature
of its construction. Many people have wondered if there were any “signs” that 2001
was going to be such a bad year. To that I say “YES” there were clear indications of
what 2001 would be like in the stock market. My interpretation of Gann’s Mass
Pressure Formula certainly did an outstanding job of predicting the basic trend
changes of the market as the chart provided with this article clearly shows.

Although I will not discuss the Mass Pressure Formula in this article, I will say that
it is based entirely on Gann’s philosophy that “the future is nothing but a repetition
of the past”. For example, one of the best-known Gann cycles is the cycle of 60-
years. What happened in the year 1941? The Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor and
the pilots crashed their planes into their targets. The Pentagon’s ground breaking
ceremony was held on 9/11/41. 60-years later in the year 2001, the movie Pearl
Harbor was released, suicide pilots once again attacked the USA and the Pentagon
experienced another “ground breaking”.
What does the Mass Pressure say about 2002? I’m including a portion of my Mass
Pressure forecast, which shows that the Market is pretty much bearish until 4/11/02.
If you would like to learn how to make these charts, the complete technique along
with my Excel worksheet which calculates and produces the charts below is
provided in my Gann course “Mysteries Of Gann Analysis Unveiled”, which can be
purchased through the Sacred Science Institute, (800) 756-6141 or
www.SacredScience.com

Just remember that even though the Mass Pressure formula provides valuable
information about the possible future, it will not necessarily make you a better
trader. You have to trade the market based on what it is actually doing. That said,
enjoy the small sample of the 2002 Mass Pressure chart.




TO ORDER CLICK HERE:
http://www.sacredscience.com/store/commerce.cgi?product=FER
                WHEELS WITHIN WHEELS
    THE ART OF FORECASTING FINANCIAL MARKET CYCLES

                           BY DANIEL T. FERRERA
"Mr. Ferrera has put together a very unique stock market report that clearly shows
two dominant long term cycle patterns that have predicted every major Bull & Bear
Market Trend for the past century. He then projects this pattern 100 years into the
future. I would highly recommend this book to anyone that invests in the US Stock
Markets".         Bonnie Lee Hill, Dallas, Texas

We are happy to announce the release of a new course, by Dan Ferrera, Wheels
Within Wheels: The Art of Forecasting Financial Market Cycles.
In this course, Dan breaks down the 16 primary cycles of the Dow Jones Averages,
and combines them in Excel spreadsheets to create a composite wave which very
closely reproduces the last 100 years of market activity (see chart below). He
explains all cycle lengths, some possible correlations, but most importantly projects
them 100 years into the future with the DTF Barometer to give a clear vision of the
next 100 years of the Dow Jones Averages.

For further details, see contents, 1900-2000 Composite, and reviews below.

TABLE OF CONTENTS:

PART I - Special Stock Market Cycle Report
Author’s Introduction
The 18-Year Super Bull & Bear Market Cycle
The Big Picture
A Closer Look At Cycles
The 42-Year Cycle
Interest Rates
The Economy
The January Effect
2002- 2102 Major Trend Cycle Composite Forecast

PART II – Special Stock Market Cycle Report
Author’s Introduction
What is a Cycle?
The New Era
The Four Primary Intermediate Cycles
W.D. Gann’s Stock Market Patterns
The 10 & 9 Year Cycles
The Shorter Cycles
Putting Them All Together
S&P 100 Year Projection Using #1 & #2 Dominant Cycles
Follow The Yellow Brick Road

Part III – The DTF Long Term Stock Market Barometer
16 Cycle Composite Barometer
Is Timing The Market Worth The Effort?
The 54-Year & 12-Year Cycles In Bond Yields
Cycles In Gold
Stock Market Cycle Charts

Appendices
Appendix 1 - Garrett Torque Analysis Example
Appendix 2 – How To Create A Composite Cycle
Appendix 3 – Vectors & Phase: What is a Vector?
Appendix 4 – Wyler’s Theoretical Considerations
Appendix 5 – Dewey’s Cycles In The Stock Market
Appendix 6 – Cogan’s Rhythmic Cycles
Appendix 7 - Chase’s Economic Time
Appendix 8 – Wood’s Stock Market Time Cycles
Appendix 9 – Martin’s Trend Action
Appendix 10 – Weston’s Geometrical Chart System
Appendix 11 – Bibliography & Recommended Reading

2002, 300p. Numerous Charts & Diagrams. Includes CD ROM with all Excel
Spreadsheets including all cycle calculations and charts, and the 100 year
projection DTF Barometer. CD Rom also Includes 100 Years of Daily Dow
Jones Industrial Average Data 1900 - Current, Daily S&P Data 1960 –
Current, Daily NASDQ Data 1971- Current, Daily Cash Wheat Data 1966-
Current, & Daily Cash Soybean Data 1959- Current. This data alone would
normally cost the price of this entire course! Price $450.00

FIRST REVIEWS OF THE ORIGINAL 12 PAGE CYCLE REPORT, PART 1 OF
THIS COMPLETE COURSE:

Having studied and used cycles in the stock market for some 32 years now,
I have come to appreciate their value and consider the study of economic
cycles the only valuable tool the long-term investor really needs. Because
of this, I was interested in reading Daniel Ferrera’s new "Special Stock
Market Cycle Report" to see if he could shed some light on the economic
outlook for the coming years and if it differed from my own views. Dan’s
report basically explains the long term "Super" bull and bear market cycles
and breaks down their subcycles with examples from the past 100 years
and then forecasts them 100 years into the future. Most investors would be
quite surprised to learn what these cycles suggest for the coming decade
and the next two to four years in particular. A knowledge of such major
highs and lows is instrumental to wealth creation and I believe that the
Rothschilds of Europe specifically stated that they accumulated all of their
wealth by simply following the 41-42 month cycle of economic activity
which worked for their families for over a century! Dan’s study pinpoints
the big highs and lows that come from very regular and dependable cycles
and if you are a long term investor or mutual fund owner you will certainly
want to know when these "once in a lifetime" opportunities come for stock
investing. This report also mentions the more frequent short term cycles of
economic activity that can act as a guidepost to the outcomes forecasted
by the master long term cycles. If you invest in the market with any long-
term funds you will need to know the information in this report. It’s
presented as a fairly basic analysis that will serve as a stepping stone to
more sophisticated cycle analysis but for the average investor if you don’t
know these basic fundamental cycles you will be at a significant
disadvantage in the investment arena. For the rather modest cost of this
report, I feel it is an investment in the future well worth making.
Michael S. Jenkins, Stock Cycles Forecast
"Mr. Ferrera has put together a very unique stock market report that clearly
shows two dominant long term cycle patterns that have predicted every
major Bull & Bear Market Trend for the past century. He then projects this
pattern 100 years into the future. I would highly recommend this report to
anyone that invests in the US Stock Markets".          Bonnie Lee Hill,
Dallas, Texas

Long-term investing through "Buy & Hold" philosophy can be an excellent
strategy for accumulating significant wealth in the stock market, but that
strategy and the length of the holding period must be based on the specific
cyclic action of the market, not some rigid, "never sell" approach which
refuses to adjust to the changes in the market. If you bought for the long-
term in 1928 and failed to sell in early October 1929, it took you until 1953
just to break even, and that's assuming the stocks you bought were even in
business 25 years later. Bought for the long-term in 1966 and held? It took
you a full 16 years until 1982 to break even ignoring the horrible economic
inflation our country experienced . Mr. Ferrera's report clearly shows how
and when these long term investment opportunities present themselves
with both historical charts and future projections all the way out to the year
2108. I believe its the best investment I have ever made. In my opinion, the
price should be much higher.         V. S.

Mr. Ferrera, who has written several magazine articles for us, has put
together a unique stock market report that clearly shows how two
dominant long-term cycle patterns have predicted every major Bull & Bear
Market for the past century. Mr. Ferrera then graphically projects this cyclic
model 16 years into the future and then describes how the stock market is
likely to unfold over the next 100-years! In all my years at Tradersworld
Magazine, I have never seen anything like this report! This information is
absolutely invaluable for anyone that invests in the equity markets,
whether it's on their own or through a company retirement plan. You Can
See It Too... In this report, you will literally "see" how and why the markets
crashed in 1929 and then again in 1974. You will understand why the
market basically traded sideways from 1932 to 1947 and 1974 to 1982. You
will see why the stock markets topped in the year 2000 and what they are
most likely to do until the year 2018. Larry Jacobs, Publisher, Trader's
World Magazine

CAT#447 Deluxe Quarto Hardcover Facsimile Edition. Maroon Suede
w/Guilt Lettering. CD Rom w/Software $450.00


TO ORDER Wheels Within Wheels:
http://www.sacredscience.com/store/commerce.cgi?product=FER
                       FERRERA TRADING COURSE!
     THE KEYS TO SUCCESSFUL SPECULATION
The most commonly repeated question I am asked over and over again by market
students is, “What one book can I read that will teach me all the basics I need to
begin trading?” This is a difficult question, because most books only give bits and
pieces of the knowledge needed to begin from scratch and to learn all the necessary
details of setting up an account, money management, risk management, entry
strategies, stop placement, exit strategies, etc. The best response I can give is to
outline a study course of the best works that are available, which every researcher
must then integrate into a trading strategy for himself. Some are able to do this, in
time, but many are not able to make the transition over that psychological gap
between theory and practice. This problem is finally been resolved with the release
of this Daniel Ferrera's course, The Keys To Successful Speculation.

Those of you who have studied Ferrera's other courses, know that his prior works
have primarily focused upon uncovering the deeper and more complex, esoteric
elements of Gann analysis, cycle theory, and the like. Yet Dan recognized that many
students of this deeper analysis are blocked or confused when it came to developing
successful trading strategies and applications from the more complex material.
There is a huge gulf between analyzing the markets and trading the markets, a gulf
that many researchers never successfully breach. This new trading course, what we
consider to be a sort of Trading 101 Course, takes a radically different approach
than anything he has produced before

The Keys To Successful Speculation presents a fully intact trading manual, which
will clearly teach anyone, including those with absolutely no prior knowledge of the
markets, Gann, or forecasting in general, to successfully trade in any market, from
stocks, to futures, to options, in any time frame, from day trading to long term
trading, beginning with very limited capital, as little as a few thousand dollars. This
book is not esoteric, and is not focused on abstract analytical and theoretical
principles, but is totally application orientated, specifically outlining a clear trading
strategy incorporating all necessary principles of money management, charting, risk
management, swing trading, signal generation, the use of options and much more.
In all my years in this field, I have never seen anything that so clearly and easily
provides all the needed instruction to take one from confused status of an
inexperienced trader or complete beginner, to the status of one who is able to make
regular trades in the right way, producing consistent profits for their efforts. Taking
this first step from confusion to a clear trading program and strategy is essential for
anyone who desires to be a successful trader.

Besides being confident that this course will provide a clear and logical system that
anyone can understand and learn to trade with, I can also say that it provides a
strategic logic upon which more advanced analysts can overlay their deeper
understanding and market research to produce even more successful return
streams, and more powerful trading systems. Successful trading requires that one
have a plan of strategy, whatever the level of trader, and this course provides that
logic and strategic thinking that is required to develop that trading plan.

I hope this course provides the first step to the long sought success that many of you
have been working towards.
Sincerely,
W. B. Stewart
Sacred Science Institute


We asked Dan to give a brief overview of this trading methodology and some
examples and he responded with the following:

Dan’s Overview & Examples of His Trading System:

1. System objectivity/discretional approach. The approach is
very straight forward and easy to apply and understand.
Subjectivity is eliminated as much as possible.

2. System%predictability/timeframe: The methods work on all
time frames without changing any rules and works in a
consistent manner.

3. Win/losses/drawdown/min capital req. Average capital
would be $5,000 but someone could start trading it with
options for less upfront capital. Drawdowns are kept well
under control if you follow the entire method and the number
of winners should out do the losses by an average of 6 to 1
with a risk to reward ratio that is always greater than 3 to 1.

4. System return/time. This depends on what time frame you
use when you trade it. In the book, I illustrate a trading
run on the S&P emini that resulted in a 200% return in
9-months using only one of the trading approaches presented
in the material. I made every attempt to keep things simple.

5. System math/logic support. The logic is based on laws of
motion and laws of attraction, but no complex math formulas
are used nor needed to exploit these advantages. Only a new
perspective is required.

6. Psychological and other consequences/amount of work to
learn and make/stick to decision. The approach is pretty
easy to learn. I cannot predict how long it will take anyone
to overcome any psychological issues they may have from
prior experiences, but I personally believe that if one
really follows everything discussed in KEYS, that they will
and should make money from trading in this way.

I hope this information is helpful,

Dan

Trading Examples:
Here are a few examples of Keys trades in Soybeans and in Bonds. I did
one on a daily and the other on an intra-day so that people can see that it
works on all time frames. The trades were generated using the first 3 swing
patterns. There a 7 entry methods in total, so this is about half. Anyway, the
entries used were Lost Motion, 2-lower tops or 2-higher lows and 4th time
at the same price.

SOYBEAN DAILY TRADING EXAMPLE
http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/Soybeans.htm


BONDS INTRA-DAY TRADING EXAMPLE
http://www.sacredscience.com/ferrera/Bonds.htm


             THE KEYS TO SUCCESSFUL SPECULATION

                            TABLE OF CONTENTS:
Introduction                                        Pages 1-2
Dedication                                          Page 3
Risk Discloser                                      Pages 3-4
Commodity Basics                                    Pages 4-5
How Much Do You Need To Start Correctly             Page 6
The Profession & Business                           Page 6-7
Charts                                              Pages 7-8
The Keys To Successful Speculation                  Pages 9-22
Mathematical Analysis Section 1                     Pages 22-28
Perspective                                         Pages 29-34
Mathematical Analysis II Geometry Review            Pages 34-37
Instantaneous Balance Stability                     Pages 38-42
Gann’ Mechanical System                             Pages 42-51
Swing Trading Improvements Theory & Principle       Pages 52-53
Understanding and Exploiting Lost Motion            Pages 53-56
Endpoints of Swings Have Magnetic Force             Pages 56-59
Zones of Influence Define Test & Failure            Pages 60-62
Simple Profit Targets & Market Examples             Pages 62-68
Trading Pattern #2                                     Pages 69-70
How Price Can Change Polarity                          Pages 71-72
The Fourth Time at The Same Level                      Pages 72-75
How to Determine A Useful Swing Size                   Page 76
How To Determine Useful Stops                          Pages 77-78
Trading Is A Profession                                Pages 78-79
Understanding The Options Opportunity                  Pages 79-85
Probability of A Price Move                            Pages 85-87
Understanding Option Spreads                           Pages 87-90
Successful Trading                                     Page 91
What Is Luck                                           Page 92
Conclusion                                             Pages 93-94
Opportunist System                                     Pages 95-99
Swing Trading Stocks Based on Square Roots             Pages 100-104
Questions & Answers                                    Pages 104-139
Understanding Trends & Trendline Breaks                Pages 112-114
Trends Again, Bar Grouping Technique                   Pages 114-119
Gann’s Red Light Green Light Trend Indicator           Pages 119-130
Using Inside Bars to Enter With the Trend              Pages 132-138
Gann’s Natural Resistance Levels & Cycle Points        Pages 139-163
Student Questions &Answers From Online Salon           Pages 164-245

PRICE &ORDERING
We have created new Keys To Speculation Ferrera Trading Salon, which is
dedicated only to trading and applied principles, to which everyone with this new
course will have access to discuss their trading with Dan. Dan is already
moderating this Salon and will answer any questions anyone has about the tools and
strategies in the book. Dan also has developed a number of Trade Station indicators
and tools which he are included with the book’s CD ROM which readers are invited
to further develop within the Salon.


The Keys To Successful Speculation, by Daniel T. Ferrera
2004. 350 pages. Hardcover, w/CD ROM Indicators.
PRICE:       $1500.00

Click this link to order now:
http://www.sacredscience.com/store/commerce.cgi?product=FER
Customer Feedback From The Online Forum:

I originally posted this under the "Keys To Successful Speculation: Salon", but I
wanted other followers of Dan’s writings to see what an excellent book The Keys
To Successful Speculation is and the fantastic returns it has generated! Since I
first posted this message on June 25 2004 I am up close to 25% on my account.
My confidence is beginning to heal after the years of financial and psychological
ruin. What follows is the original post.

From despair to elation. I have been trading for about 10 years. I have spent
more on trading systems, books and charts then I have made in the market. I
have seen a thousand different trading strategies and I have tried almost all of
them with only greater losses trading to show for my investment. I have had such
poor trading results that I became scared to actually put on a trade. I would just
sit and stare at my computer screen, saying: "I should of bought here or I should
have sold there." I had just about given up on finding something that would
actually work and make me a successful trader. I read a little bit of Dan’s other
books at a friend’s house and thought they were really interesting. My friend said
that he got an email about Dan’s new book and at a pre-release special price, so
I thought I would take one more chance, throughout my 10-years of trading, I
have said this over and over again. I had my tax return check and decided to give
Keys a try. When the book arrived I was a little disappointed. I thought this is
nothing special and felt that I had just thrown nearly $800 down the drain. I read
the book a few more times as was suggested and realized there might actually
be something to this approach and trading philosophy. Then the day came to
putting on a real life trade, I froze up again, I couldn’t pull the trigger. I watched
the charts for a couple more days and I looked at all the past setups and made
an ultimatum. I would put on the next trade or I would quit watching the markets
all together and just give up. The time came, to put on a trade. I hit the send
button, I was short the S&P Emini, the trade didn’t do much at first but then it
started to move in my favor. It worked perfectly! The next trade was another
Emini trade this time I went long, and this time it wasn’t as hard to pull the trigger
on this trade but I still had to mentally force myself to do it. This trade also
worked. I immediately called my brokerage firm and had them send me for
almost 70% of my profits. I can’t wait for this check to arrive!!! I have never
received a check from all my days of trading unless it was to close out my
account due to losses. While writing this, I put on another trade. I went short the
Emini again, I had an easier time pulling the trigger this time but things went
wrong and I got stopped out for a small loss. I didn’t have those feelings of
despair this time because my stop was mentally and emotionally tolerable. The
trade also gave me a chance to re-enter, so I did. At this point, the trade has
moved far enough in my favor that I can’t loose anything. I am so happy I finally
found something that really works. I don’t know why Dan would even sell this
material to the public. I feel liberated!!!!! Thanks So Very Much!
T. M.
Hello Everyone,

I wanted to write a review about my experiences using Dan’s latest book “The
Key’s To Successful Speculation”. But before I do that, I wanted to write about
what brought me to buy this new course. I am 35 years old. I have been trading
on and off inconsistently since I was 25. I always felt to succeed in the markets
you had to have some complicated plan to make money from the markets
because you are trading against the smartest minds in the world. I have spent so
much money reading numerous trading books on technical analysis and how to
make money in the stock market that it is too many to write about. I have bought
so many different technical analysis software programs including (Advanced Get,
MetaStock, Nature’s Pulse, AIQ, Omega Research, etc…) and other add on
software to go with these programs to find a “Holy Grail” to trading that I just
about given up trading and just invest in mutual funds because I never had a
trading plan to consistently make money.

When I became aware of Dan’s new course through an email sent by Brad
Stewart, I was to say the least a little skeptical. I have spent so much money in
the past; I couldn’t imagine another trading course that would make me become
the trader I wanted to become. I was just about ready to leave for my golf trip to
Palm Dessert with some friends and in came my tax return check from the IRS.
After rereading the book’s contents, I gave it one last shot and bought Dan’s
book to learn how to trade. When I received “The Key’s To Successful
Speculation” in June of 2004, I was a little let down. In the past, I was so used to
seeing a book with numerous chart examples and explanations that compared to
what I received; Dan’s book looked a little thin.

I started reading his book and boy was I surprised. Dan is a very direct writer. He
gets right to the point and leaves little for second guessing. The way he wrote his
book, I felt he was writing it directly to me. He pointed out numerous trading
mistakes I made and why most traders fail when they trade. He explains how to
trade and when to enter and exit. He thoroughly explains money management
and why it is the most neglected area in trading. Dan writes that you should read
this material numerous times to fully grasp the material in this course. I would
venture to say, you should read this at least 10 times before you put on your first
trade. I placed three trades after reading the book the fourth time and took very
manageable loss on each trade. I should have waited until after reading it the
tenth time, but it was a manageable loss and I wanted to get my feet wet. Before
reading this book, I didn’t have any risk/reward plan. I had no real understanding
of where and when to enter and exit, nor how to manage a trade when I am in it.

Now I feel very confident in what I am doing. You don’t need the most
complicated trading strategy like I thought you would need to be successful. I
know when and where I should buy and sell. I mostly trade stocks, but this
material works very well with futures and options. The one thing that I noticed
after learning this material is that you have to be very patient. I am more focused
and feel very much empowered in knowing that I am on the right track. I am not
taking any foolhardy chances like I have in the past. I know that if I work with
persistence and follow and trade the market as per the rules in Dan’s book, “The
Key’s To Successful Speculation”, then I will succeed and reach my goals in
becoming a successful trader.

If you are not sure and feel that this is just another trading book, then learn from
my initial mistake and buy this book. You will learn more about trading than
anything else you will find on trading the markets. If you are not having the
trading success you want, give this course a try. You won’t be sorry!

Thanks Dan for writing a great book and for answering my questions in the
forum. I also want to thank Brad for sending that email and for having a great
forum allowing us traders ask questions to help in our understanding of the
material.

If you have any questions, I am more than happy to answer. If you have a very
detailed question, I am sure Dan or Brad would be very happy in answering your
question.

Wishing you much success,
J. D.

Keys is Excellent! At first, I must admit I felt a little disappointed, as I thought I
was too simple to work, and perhaps was too expensive, but it works and has
paid for itself – very happy with this method.

J.R.
   THE GANN PYRAMID: SQUARE OF NINE ESSENTIALS

                             BY DANIEL T. FERRERA
The Sacred Science Institute is proud to announce the release of a new
groundbreaking course on the Square Of Nine, W. D. Gann's most mysterious
calculator. This course is full of never before seen principles and techniques of
analysis using Gann's Square of 9. It contains explanations of Gann's complicated
theories and the principles upon which they are based, and gives clear market
examples which any trader can immediately apply and integrate into his trading
system. We are confident that this course will provide any reader with insights into
Gann theory and trading applications which they have never seen presented in any
other writings on Gann Analysis!

Introduction                                                                P-2
Navigating With the Square of Nine                                          P-7
Bible Interpretations Related to W. D. Gann                                 P-11
What Gann Said About the Square of Nine                                     P-15
Six Squares of Nine                                                         P-16
Square of Nine Time Applications                                            P-19
Price Targets For Support & Resistance                                      P-23
Using A Square of Nine Table                                                P-25
Time As a Price & Price as a Time                                           P-28
Gann Angle Projection                                                       P-30
Square of Nine Time Techniques, A Different Look at History                 P-33
Analyzing Markets                                                           P-39
Nine Rules For The Square of Nine                                           P-40
PERIODIC NUMBER CYCLES                                                      P-42
Price as a Time Period                                                      P-45
Price Levels For Support & Resistance                                       P-47
Converting Astronomical Longitude to Price                                  P-49
ANOTHER ASTRONOMICAL TECHNIQUE                                              P-55
Fibonacci Ratios                                                            P-60
Conclusion                                                                  P-62
W. D. Gann Calculators                                                      P-63

CAT#438 Deluxe Quarto Hardcover Facsimile Edition. Maroon
Suede w/Guilt Lettering. $395.00

To Order:
http://www.sacredscience.com/store/commerce.cgi?product=FER
      THE MYSTERIES OF GANN ANALYSIS UNVEILED!
                             BY DANIEL T. FERRERA
The Sacred Science Institute is proud to announce the release of new course
presenting the most detailed explanation of Gann Theory & Application ever before
released to the public. Covering in detail a dozen of Gann's most difficult analysis
techniques and theories, this course will advance the general reader to levels far
beyond most Gann "experts" today. This course will provide any reader with deep
insights into Gann’s theories and valuable trading applications which have never
been presented in any previous writings on Gann Analysis!


The Astrological Secret Of Gann Angles                               Page 1-3
Analysis Of The Coffee Letter & Planetary Vectors Or Angles          Page 3-12
The Cosmology Of 17 Years                                            Page 12-13
Squaring Price With Time                                             Page 14-23
Forecasting With Planetary Cycles                                    Page 23-27
The 37 Year Cycle Pattern In The Dow Jones Industrial Average        Page 28-31
Important Formulas And Techniques For Planetary Cycles               Page 32-33
Three Term Proportion Of Planetary Longitudes                        Page 34-36
Gann’s CE Average, MOF Formula & Master Charts                       Page 37-39
Periodic Number Cycles                                               Page 40-44
Support & Resistance Techniques From The Square Of 9                 Page 44-50
Converting Planetary Longitude To Price                              Page 50-51
Converting A Horoscope Into A Price Calculator                       Page 52
Gann’s Master Mathematical Formula For Market Predictions            Page 53-60
Mass Pressure Forecasting Technique                                  Page 61-66
Forecasting The Stock Market With Cycles                             Page 66-73
Gann’s Permanent Charts                                              Page 74-81
Gann’s Base Ten Method                                               Page 82-84
Balancing Solar Longitude With Price On The Square Of 9              Page 85-86
Tunnel Thru The Air                                                  Page 87-94
Soybean Letter To Private Student                                    Page 94-98
Market Volume                                                        Page 99-101
Conclusion                                                           Page 102



Appendix A Coffee Letter References
W. D. Gann May Coffee Santos D
Coffee Charts, Horoscopes, & Calculations
Appendix B Geometrical Angles
W. D. Gann The Basis of My Forecasting Method - Geometrical Angles
W. D. Gann The Basis of My Forecasting Method For Grains
W. D. Gann Grains Scale of Prices
W. D. Gann Charts & Demonstrations
Appendix C Time Cycles
W. D. Gann Forecasting & The Master Time Factor
How To Create A Composite Cycle
Astronomical Cycles & The 37 Year William’s Cycle
Gann’s Great Mutations Charts
Ludwig Larson       Ages & Cycles of Time
George Bayer & Cycle Interpretation
Heliocentric Moves
W. D. Gann Cash & May Soybeans Futures
Planetary Reference Sheets & Tables
Sepharial     The Arcana or Stock & Share Key
Appendix D Soybean Letter References
W. D. Gann Soybeans Price Resistance Levels
Active Angle References
Soybean Chart & Horoscopes
Appendix E Master Calculator
W. D. Gann Master Calculator for Weekly Time Periods
W. D. Gann Mathematical Formula For Market Predictions
Appendix F Master Charts
W. D. Gann Master Charts
Studies & Examples
Appendix G Market Volume
Commentaries on Market Volume
W. D. Gann Market Trends, The Volume Rule - Unpublished Manuscript
W. D Gann Form Reading
Ted Warren The Four Basic Phases / Cycles of Stock Prices
W. D. Gann Trading Rules

The Ticker & Investment Digest 1909 Gann Interview

Computer Programs Included
Excel - Cycle Calculator
Excel - W. D. Gann Mass Pressure Calculator For Dow 30
Excel – Mathematical Formula For Market Predictions Calculator Overlay
Excel – Time Calculator
Excel – 2 Square of Nine Calculators
Program – New Planet – Calculates Planetary Positions By Degree Progression
Program - Cyclekt - Wave Mechanics Program Creating Summational Waves

CAT#439 Deluxe Quarto Hardcover Facsimile Edition. Maroon
Suede w/Guilt Lettering. CD Rom with Software. $1,500.00
http://www.sacredscience.com/store/commerce.cgi?product=FER
                STOCK MARKET PREDICTION
            THE HISTORICAL & FUTURE SIDEROGRAPH
                     CHARTS & SOFTWARE

                             BY DONALD BRADLEY


The Planetary Barometer & How To Use It. Donald Bradley’s Siderograph
Indicator is a very popular market indicator used by many analysts to give current
turning points and trend indications for the markets. We have kept Bradley’s
original work available for many years, but there has never been software to
produce the charts readily available. Upon learning that services charged up to $100
per year for each Bradley chart, and that the only available software to produce the
charts ran into the thousands of dollars, we put together a new version of Bradley’s
work including the Bradley Siderograph charts for 100 years from 1950 to 2050,
including the software so that anyone can produce these charts for themselves. The
historical charts will also allow researchers to track past performance of the
Siderograph for the past 55 years of market history, and to have ready made charts
covering the next 45 years. This book includes a CD ROM with the software, and is
bound in a Hardcover. See sample chart below.

CONTENTS: Mystery of Mass Psychology; Human Response to Outside Forces;
Tides In Affairs of Men; Cycles Write World History; Search for Causes; 3 1/2 Year
Business Cycle; Planetary Aspects Are The Secret; Jupiter-Uranus Cycle; Planetary
Periods & Synods; Symbols; Aspects in Action; Power of Aspects; Line of
Aspectivity; computing; Example; Sideograph; Promises & Limitations. 100 Years
of Siderograph Charts.


CAT#496 $195.00 HARDCOVER W/ CD ROM
To Order:
http://www.sacredscience.com/store/commerce.cgi?product=FER
