FACE FACTS AMERICA!
LOOKING AHEAD TO 1950

by W.D. Gann


With the greatest war in the history of the world raging and man’s inhumanity to man the greatest
that has ever been known, with the Germans ruthlessly destroying women and children and
showing no mercy, it becomes the duty of everyone who can by word, deed or act do anything to
aid the United States to protect America’s interest in the future. I write this with a desire that the
truth will help because holding on to hope has ruined other countries and will ruin the United States
if it is continued.

In 1927, when I wrote “The Tunnel Thru the Air or Looking Back From 1940,” by the use of time
cycles that I have discovered through knowledge gained in reading the Bible, I foresaw what would
happen and it has all come true. Unbelievable weapons of death and airplanes making five to six
hundred miles per hour are being used in the war. All of these things I predicted in “The Tunnel
Thru the Air” in 1927.

I wrote then to try and help and I write now to tell the truth to those who can and will believe and act.
If I can wake up a few people to realize that they must do something to help save liberty and
Christianity in our great country, then I will not have written in vain I believe in God and in the law of
compensation I advise everyone to read the Book of Revelation and they will see how this terrible
war was predicted. People should read the Bible more, especially the books of Solomon and
Proverbs, and follow the wise counsel and try to gain knowledge.


CAUSE OF THE WORLD’S TROUBLES

We must first determine the cause and not deal with effects because dealing with effects
instead of causes is what has brought all of the troubles to the world and to the United
States. More and greater troubles will follow unless the World and the United States face
facts and act before it is everlastingly too late there are many causes for the present
troubles existing throughout the world, but the greatest cause of all is greed for power and
money. The bible says that love of money is the root of all evil. Unwise leaders, ruthless
and reckless politicians in their greed for power have deceived the people and this is the
most important cause of all, in my opinion, of the world’s troubles.

When the World War ended in 1918, we were told that it would be the last war. This war
was fought to save Democracy. Germany was disarmed and agreed to a settlement of
debts and reparations. Germany’s failure to live up to these agreements and pay these
debts is the cause of the war and troubles today, both to Germany, Europe and the world.
Germany could have paid every dollar of the World War debt. The proof of this is that
Germany has spent more than forty billion dollars to prepare for war and that is why they
are waging such a successful war. In 1870, when Germany won the war, she settled a
debt on France of one billion dollars and France paid every dollar of it and still lives. One
billion dollars in 1870 was equal to ten billion dollars in 1920. Germany, of course, worked
upon the sympathy of the world and finally President Hoover declared a moratorium and
Germany stopped paying her debts. From that day on, Germany started to repudiate
everything and started to spend money to prepare for another war, bleeding her people
white and practically enslaving them.
                                                    1
England and France trusted Germany and believed she would live up to the agreement
and never fight again, That is where they made their mistake, hoping instead of facing
facts and preparing for the worst. there is no question but that the Allies hoped, wanted
and worked for peace. they knew the cost and the horrors of war and wanted no more of it.
Hitler, no doubt believed, once he started bluffing, he could continue to bluff and take
everything he wanted, but, at the same time Hitler faced the facts and prepared to fight, if
necessary, to get what he wanted. The Allies hoped and failed to prepare and the result is
that they have had to pay the penalty for not facing facts.

If Germany had paid her debts as she agreed to after the end of the war and had been
made to pay, then England and France could have paid the United States. Regardless of
the mistakes that have been made by the Allies, the final cause of the present war and all
the troubles must be laid at the door of Germany.


WHY HITLER SUCCEEDS

The reason for Hitler’s success is based on two words: Hope and fear. Hitler knowing that
the German people had gone through privations and suffering during the World War
promised them impossible things, raising their hopes. In this way he gained a following
and ascended to power. Then, to control the people and make slaves out of them and to
take from them everything they had, he worked upon their fears. In fact, no ruler who has
ever lived has been more ruthless with his own people than Hitler. He has been the most
supreme dictator that ever lived in the history of the world and if the truth was known, he is
the most hated man in Germany among the common people. But they fear him and have
to submit to whatever he imposes upon them.

Hitler is not fighting for a just cause or for the benefit of the German people. He is fighting
to gratify egotism and be a world dictator, He is the kind of man who wants vengeance and
wants power. Once he holds a grudge, he will resort to any means to accomplish his
purpose. He hates England and would rather conquer England probably than all the rest
of the world. When any man works and acts through his anger or through his hatred he
fails, It is not necessary to take up time to review the history of the world to prove that this
is a fact. All rulers who have tried to conquer the world and become a world power have
met defeat, with the exception of Alexander. If the world had been larger at that time, he
would have met the same fate as Napoleon and others.

Another reason for Hitler’s success is the fact that human nature does not change. Every
twenty years, a young generation comes along that is full of hope and optimism. They are
hero worshippers and can easily be led. Hitler’s rise to power is due to his following by the
younger generation. The older Germans have oppose Hitler’s ideas from the start. The
young blood hero worshippers are following Hitler to their doom. That is why rulers and
politicians can rise to power because they appeal to the imagination or the hope of the
young generation who act without thinking, believe all they hear and do not seek
knowledge or act according to well-defined laws or plans.


WHY GERMANY WILL LOSE THE WAR

First, I will give a well-known economic reason why the Germans must lose in the end.
They are fighting the fastest war in history, therefore using up food and all kinds of

                                               2
materials faster than ever before. They started out with a limited supply, with the
expectation of that supply being greatly increased. Their hopes and expectations have not
been realized and I do not believe they will. Germany is rapidly exhausting her man power
as well as materials, munitions and food supplies. Hitler has gambled everything on one
lightning-bolt stroke. If this fails, the war is lost. If Germany invades the Balkans, it is my
opinion that Russia will turn against her. Certainly Turkey will fight on the side of the Allies
and it is more than possible that Romania will. In the final analysis, Mussolini may be
smart enough to join the Allies against his partner, because if Germany should win and
Italy should help, Italy will get nothing. If Germany loses and Italy is on her side, she will be
ruined.

It is always darkest just before dawn. As I write on May 24, 1940, it looks bad for the Allies.
But they now know that they are fighting a battle of life and death. They are fighting for
liberty. If they lose, it means slavery and the worst conditions possible in the history of the
world. Hitler is fighting on the same ground that Napoleon met his Waterloo. My opinion is
that Hitler will meet defeat and will meet it sooner than he expects. Just as sure as
retribution follows crime, by the law of compensation and God, the man who violates all
the laws of God and man, or the nation that violates all the laws of God and man, always
loses in the end and Hitler and Germany will lose this time, There has never been a man
so smart but that success did not go to his head and when he is drunk with success he
makes the one fatal mistake that causes his downfall. England and France have produced
some of the smartest men that have ever lived in the world. They have just as many and
more men of brains today than Germany and they are now working day and night to find
the way to win the war.


SHOULD THE UNITED STATES ENTER THE WAR?

The reason for the United States entering the war or helping the Allies at this time are
much greater than they were in 1917. We know now and know much better than we did in
1917 that if Germany wins the war then no country on the face of the earth will be safe.
Hitler and Germany will attempt to enslave and rule the world. Christianity will go and
freedom will go. The will of the dictator will be law. Only God can save America if the
Germans win. There is not past history or no reason to believe that if the Germans win this
war and are drunk with victory that they will stop and settle down to be a peaceful nation.
They are certainly going to try to conquer South America and North America. Let no one
deceive himself about that. It pays to face facts, and hope can only lead to disaster. That is
why the world is in the trouble it is today-because too many of our rulers have hoped
instead of facing facts and preparing for the worst. Whether it be in private or national
affairs, the man who looks forward and sees the darkest side and prepares for it is the
man who will succeed, and the nation that prepares for the worst will not have to face the
worst.

It will be much cheaper for us to lend all the aid possible to the Allies now than to fight
Germany alone later when all the weapons and the power gained by winning this war
would be turned against us. We do not have to send men across the water to fight the war.
Men will not help. The Allies need airplanes, tanks and food. That we can furnish them and
that we should do. If we do our part in that way, the Allies will win and the world will be
saved, Christianity will be saved, and religion will once more be the hope of free men. We
follow false prophets and unwise politicians who tell us that “it cant happen here” who lead
us into believing that they can get us out of the worst trouble by more false promises,
when we know the mess we are already in now by following the promises of New Deal

                                               3
leaders and dictators. We are a peaceful nation and may not want to fight but we will be
forced to fight and will have to fight alone if we do not help the Allies. Many people will
argue that the Allies failed to pay their debts just the same as other nations, but it must
also be recognized that this was due partly to the fact that Germany did not pay the Allies.
We must blame ourselves for Germany not paying because it was the United States that
declared the moratorium and gave Germany a chance to welch on her debt.

We must be fair and see both sides of the question and at this critical hour we cannot let
prejudices stand in the way. If you had a neighbor who had been your enemy and his
house was burning down and you knew that unless the flames were stopped your house
naturally would burn up, would it not be a part of wisdom to help that enemy stop the fire
that was destroying his house in order to save your own? It is the same situation today. If
we don’t help the Allies put out this flame of war, it will destroy us next. There is one thing
that we can be sure of – that England and France will never fight the United States. They
will remain peaceful Christian nations and will help us all they can if we help them win the
war. Another fact that we must face is that Germany will never change. She has never
changed. She has always repudiated her debts; has always broken every promise she has
made and will in the future. Therefore, the only way to play safe against Germany is to
prepare to defeat her and place her in a position where she will never be a menace to the
world again.


THE MISTAKES OF THE NEW DEAL

Mistakes have to be paid for and there have never been more mistakes made in any
administration of the United States than have been made by the New Deal and the people
must pay the price for following leaders who made promises that they never intended to
fulfill. Politicians appeal to the hopes of the people and continue to promise and the one
who promises the most is the one who can be elected, because it is human nature for
most of the people to be looking for something for nothing and trying to get something for
nothing. Therefore, they will vote for any waste of public money in the history of the
country than there has been under the New Deal. It has cost more than it cost during the
World War. These mistakes, this reckless spending will continue just as long as the New
Dealers are in power. The little man, the man that hopes and the man that votes and
follows the New Deal politicians is never told the truth or the facts of what the New Deal is
doing to him.

When the New Dealers went into power, savings banks were paying the laboring class 4%
to 5% interest on their money. Today, they are getting 1% to 2% interest on their savings.
Who is responsible for this? The New Deal. They have ordered interest rates reduced. The
Administration fights big business and tells the little man how he is being discriminated
against and a burden being placed on him. They do not tell him the truth, that the
Government has cut the interest on his savings in half. If the little man stops to think, he
will realize that the New Deal is fighting him just the same as it is big business. Insurance
companies have been hurt. Their investments have depreciated and their income-which
protects the women and children, the widows and orphans-has been reduced by acts of
the government. Union labor has been given everything, even the right to destroy life and
property and the hand of our government has not been raised against this ruthlessness.
Why? Because John L. Lewis helped to furnish the money and the votes to elect the New
Dealers and he tells President Roosevelt and the government what they have to do and he
does just as he pleases.


                                              4
In 1932, we started to pull out of the depression and would have come through all right if
the country had been let alone. Prices had gone down and the dollar was really worth
something and bought more than it had for many years. People were starting back to work
for whatever price they could get for their labor because they could live cheaper than
before and would accept lower wages. If this condition had continued, keeping the cost of
living down, the volume of business would have increased to such a great extent that more
money could have been made, that is, more net profit, because of a greater volume of
business. Then the New Deal increased the cost of living and increased the cost of labor
and shortened the hours which caused an abnormal advance in manufacturing costs. This
stopped progress which had been started and business was retarded through restrictions
and limitations. By increasing the cost of everything that the farmer used, the money that
the government gave to the farmer for limiting his crops, left him no better off than before.
The action of limiting crops put thousands of people out of employment, people who knew
how to do nothing else but farm. Restrictions and limitations have put thousands of small
concerns out of business. The present administration has made the greatest fight against
business of any administration in the history of this country.

The New Deal is no longer adhering to former laws or the Constitution. The New Dealers
have seen to it that the judges appointed to the Supreme Court interpret the laws
according to these braintrusters. How many thousands of people are there today who are
living off the government and will not take a job if they can get it? How long will the
taxpayer be able to stand this strain? How much better off would this country be if these
loafers were told they must work or starve? Canada reached the stage last year where
they found that they were being imposed upon in providing relief and when the
government found that there were plenty of jobs in the country, men were told that they
must go to work and those that refused were put off relief. This proved to be a good plan
as many men who had been living off the people went to work.

Our government has prevented big business from expanding and in this way increased
unemployment. We will never have good times, boom or prosperity in this country until the
man who saves money is given a chance to make a fair return on it in business. If
everything is going to be taken away that a man makes in business to pay the wasteful
extravagance of the New Deal then people will not risk their capital in business. When
losses come, business cannot stand them and when profits are made the government
takes most of them. The speculators, progressive and aggressive people of the country
are the backbone of the nation. Without people taking a chance, new industries could not
get started because somebody must buy the sticks and bonds of the companies in order
that they may get a start. Our government passed a law that if a man loses $100,000 in
stocks in one year, he can take credit for only $2,000 of the loss but should he make
$100,000 in a year, the government will take $20,000 to $50,000 of it in taxes. Can any
sane man or woman say that this is justice or fairness or that we are living in the land of
liberty?


AIR MAIL CONTRACTS CANCELLED

The cancellation of the air mail contracts and the assignment of army pilots to fly the mail
over routes which they had never been over resulted in the killing of hundreds of America’s
best pilots. This proves the inefficiency, lack of ability and ignorance of the administrators
of the New Deal.



                                              5
N.R.A

The New Deal passed laws to suit their own purpose regardless of whether they were
constitutional or not, as evidenced by the fact that the Supreme Court declared the N.R,A.
unconstitutional, which President Roosevelt later said would send us back to the “days of
the horse and buggy.” However, we are not back there yet, but the New Deal has done
and is doing all in its power to send us back to the “days of the horse and buggy.” It is only
by facing facts and taking prompt action that we can prevent the New Dealers from
accomplishing their purpose and ruining the country.


SILVER AND GOLD PURCHASES

The purchasing of silver from Mexico and other countries at a price far above the world
markets cost the taxpayers of the United States several billions of dollars and who did it
help? Mostly foreigners and those who were working against us. American miners
benefited some but China and other countries sent all of their silver into the United States
because they could sell it at a greater price in our market. Who paid this loss? The
taxpayers. The government has held the price of gold above world prices, therefore gold
from all parts of the world has flowed into this country. this has helped Russia, an enemy
to the Christian world and to the United States. When the United States wants to sell the
gold, who are they going to sell it to, and can they get the price they paid for it? Has the
government ever been able to explain to anyone just what they are going to do with all of
this gold? They certainly will not permit the people to have any of it or use it. My opinion is
that the day will come when gold will be sold in the open market for what it will bring and
that the price of gold will decline. Foreign countries with their currency depreciated cannot
buy gold in this country nor exchange their goods for gold at a price of $35 per ounce. This
will cause another stupendous loss and place another burden on the back of the taxpayer.

All of these extravagances of the government, together with increased government
expenses and unemployment is taking more than 30% of the income from the taxpayers
and from the people of the United States. This can result in nothing but bankruptcy. All this
has been done by the administration who promised reduction of government expenses
and a balanced budget. If they could show results for all this money spent, things would be
different, but they can’t.


HOME LOANS

Billions of dollars of money loaned on farms and other real estate loans will be lost
because the loans have been made at inflated values. It has been reported that over
100,000 homes and farms have already been abandoned and left on the government’s
hands. These cannot be sold for one-half of what the government loaned on them and the
taxpayer must make up the loss.


IMMIGRATION LAWS

This is another mistake of the New Deal. They have allowed the enemies of liberty to
come into this country from foreign countries and even allowed racketeers who have been
driven out of other countries to come here and enjoy all the freedom of this country and to

                                              6
work against us. The smartest man and the greatest friend of the United States is Martin
Dies. Through his wisdom years ago he foresaw what was going to happen. The
government has worked against him and now has awakened to the fact that he has been
telling the truth and gathering the facts about the enemies within our own border. The Fifth
Column is here and must be reckoned with, yet we have thousands of people today who
refuse to face facts and want to live on hope, who are against Dies or anyone else who
tells the truth of what the enemy aliens are doing.


GOVERNMENT GUARANTEES

The government passed a law that guaranteed the deposits in the banks. But what is
behind those guarantees? The government continues to increase the debt and sell bonds.
What will that government guarantee be worth when government bonds sell at 50 or lower,
which they will if war comes or if the government spending continues at the present rate?
Yet the politicians have told the people that all of these things were being done to benefit
them.


CONFISCATORY TAXES

Taxes have been raised until they have become confiscatory. The New Deal has arrayed
class against class. It has refused to tell the truth or to face facts. They have continued to
take the people’s money and spend it, but have condemned the man who makes and
saves the money. Where would this country be today if people who worked had not saved
that money? Business could not run, government could not run. Certainly the money that
runs the government is not taken from the laboring class or from the little man. It is taken
from the wealthy man, the man who runs a large business, yet the government is an
enemy of large business and an enemy of to any man who saves or accumulates money.
The government wants to take that money and has taken it and given it to those who vote
to keep the politicians in power. They create fears in the minds of people and then raise
false hopes in order that they will follow these blind leaders, who have never shown
enough wisdom to make a success of any business. These stubborn facts must be faced.


GOVERNMENT DEBT

President Roosevelt wishes to be permanently in power or continue as our president for a
third term or more. How was this nation able to build up the greatest country in history of
the world without President Roosevelt? Have we never had smart men before and why is
it that President Roosevelt and the New Dealers are the smartest men in the world? Do
the records prove this? Certainly we have other business men who have proven their
ability. They have been able to run their business, keep it out of debt, accumulate money
and pay dividends, while the New Dealers do nothing but continue to run the government
into debt and will not stop until we face bankruptcy. They tell us, “it can’t happen here” and
that this government can stand a debt of 70 billion dollars. When they get it up to 70 billion
dollars, they will say we can stand a debt of 100 billion dollars. They will never stop until
everything is wiped out and all values are destroyed. Those in favor of the New Deal and
these false ideas based on hope and optimism will yell “Don’t sell America short”. The time
is coming when you can sell government bonds or anything short if this reckless spending
goes on. Buying votes, giving people something for nothing is just making enemies who
will fight the government and the people who support the government when they cannot

                                              7
get something for nothing. These are facts to be faced, for it is natural for people to turn
against the hand that feeds them. We find the same in family life, A relative who refuses
to work and is supported by some of the family will turn his hand against them, forgetting
all the favors and the good things they have done for him just as soon as they discontinue
to help him. Facts are an anchor for the stability of the country; hopes are the quicksand
on which bankruptcy and disaster are founded.


BURDEN OF DEBT

This is the greatest burden placed upon the people of this country today, and the
government has fostered and encouraged increasing debt, both private and public. The
government has passed laws forcing investors to put up 40% margin to buy stocks or
bonds; yet the government has loaned the taxpayer’s money to people to buy real estate
and homes on a 10% margin and sometimes 5% and this on inflated value. On many
homes which are being built, the government is financing and making loans of 80% to
90%. These loans should not be more than 30% to 40% to be safe, but nothing the New
Deal does is safe. Everything is reckless. The whole idea of the New Deal has been that
by continuing to go into debt they can buy prosperity. They failed in giving away money to
farmers. Farm prices are at low levels. They have failed in giving away money to put
people to work. There are more people unemployed today than there were when President
Roosevelt took office the first time and yet you hear no answer or no reason given why
these conditions exist after more than 50 billion dollars of taxpayers’ money have been
wasted. Money has been appropriated for defense, but we are now told we have no
defense and three billion dollars more have to be appropriated. When and where will this
government’s reckless spending stop and if it doesn’t stop, what will be the final result?

The final result will be bankruptcy and disaster. No business or government can continue
to spend more than its income without some day facing bankruptcy. Few people realize
that this terrible burden from government debt that hangs over the country is a mortgage
on the earnings of children yet unborn and a mortgage on every home and piece of real
estate in the United States, that it must be paid sooner or later. Property assessments are
no longer based on value, but are assessed for whatever amount they can force the
taxpayer to pay. In many cases property in the State of New York is assessed at two or
three times the actual value and the taxpayer is forced to pay the taxes on false value. Is
not this confiscation of property? The rights and liberties are being taken away from the
people and just like Hitler, the more the New Dealers are allowed to take, the more they
will do that. A law was passed taking all the gold from the people. This gold was the
property of the people. After the New Dealers got the gold they raised the price 75%, but
did the public who turned over that money get the benefit of the advance? No! Yet the
people stood for that. They have been standing for everything and taking it meekly. The
day will come when another emergency will be declared and all the liberties, property, and
money, everything the people own will be taken away from them. Some people who read
this will say that I am a pessimist, but many people will live to see these things become
facts to their sad disillusionment, unless something is done and done quickly.


WHAT WILL HAPPEN IF NEW DEALERS ARE ELECTED IN 1940?

If the New Dealers are elected in 1940, there is one sure thing – the worst that can be
imagined will happen, because President Roosevelt, if elected in November, will then
become virtually a dictator. He will have violated the third term tradition and when he

                                             8
knows that he has control for the next four years, or probably for life, he and the other New
Dealers will be more reckless with the people’s money than they have ever been before.

What can the New Deal now show in the way of results for more than seven years, the
time which they have been in power? They can show the largest debt in the history of this
country; the same number of people unemployed; the country full of enemy aliens; Mexico
permitted to take the properties from the United States and nothing done about it. They
can show a record that they are collecting the largest amount of taxes in the history of the
country and that the rights of business have been taken away and that people have been
restrained, restricted and told what they can and cannot do. We have less protection for
property or for personal liberty now than we ever had before.

Once we have a dictator and all property is taken over in the United States, will we ever
get back our liberty? That is a grave question for it is an old adage that possession is nine
points of the law and once a dictator has possession he will never release it until we have
a revolution and fight for it. A revolution is just as sure to come as the sun rises and set if
the conditions that exist today continue, because we will finally reach the state where the
people in the United States will rise up and fight for the liberties that they so dearly love
and the liberties that our fathers fought and gave their best for.

Every time we have an election, government expenses increase because new officials
who are elected make promises to some of their supporters and repay them by creating
new offices and increasing expenses which are laid upon the back of the already heavily
burdened taxpayer – the man who works, saves and runs his business in a conservative
manner. The burden is getting so heavy that it cannot continue much longer. The New
Deal has ruined the market for our commodities and hurt the farmer. We have lost the
cotton market of the South and will never regain it. Men have been placed at the heads of
different departments who know no more about farming or managing the business of the
farmer than the most ignorant negro who has never been on a farm. That is the basis of
the trouble – people without experience, men who have never made a success for
themselves have been placed at the head of the government to regulate business
throughout this broad land. The result has been nothing but disaster. A government official
my be honest and conscientious but at the same time incompetent. That has been the
greatest trouble with the New Deal – incompetent men at the head of the various
departments. The idea has been to rule and ruin. It is not a question of a safe and sane
method of business; it is a question of dictatorship, to tell the farmer that he has to kill his
hogs, that he has to plow up his cotton, burn his wheat and destroy, to please the rulers
who are in power.


WHY SHOULD ONE BUSINESS BE FAVORED MORE THAN ANOTHER?

If the farmer cannot succeed and make a living tilling the soil, why should the government
give him money for nothing? It is a poor rule that doesn’t work both ways. Why should the
government not give the business man money who fails to make a success in business?
Did anybody ever hear of the government appropriating money to give to people in the
hardware business who are losing money? And did anybody ever hear of the government
appropriating money to reimburse people who lost money in public utilities because the
government fought the utilities and destroyed the value, thereby wrecking and ruining
investors throughout the United States? No. The government of the New Dealers only
appropriated and gave money where they wanted to buy votes. That is the truth and the
fact of the matter. The rights of the taxpayer are nothing. He is the goat and must bear the

                                               9
burden. The Bible says: “For he that hath, to him shall be given, and he that hath not, from
him shall be taken even that which he hath.” The New Dealers idea is that it shall be taken
from him who hath and given to him who hath not provided he will give his vote to the New
Dealers.


WHY SHOULD ROOSEVELT HAVE A THIRD TERM?

The only good reason that I can see why he should break the “third term” tradition and run
is that he should be forced to take the blame for all his mistakes and those of his
administration. The damage which they have done should not be borne by a new
president, nor should the mistakes they have made be saddled on another administration.
The New Dealers may be glad to have a Republican elected, because they can see the
danger signals ahead and know that the day of reckoning is coming when the people will
rise up against them for placing a burden of taxes upon them which they are unable to
bear.

The New Dealers on their record can offer no good reasons why they should remain in
power. Why should President Roosevelt remain in power just because there is a war
crisis? Has he, as a New Dealer, proved by the records that he could handle the country
any better through a war than some of the other able businessmen in both the Democratic
and Republican parties? If the New Dealers have run up a debt greater than we have ever
had before in war, it certainly proves that they do not know how to manage the
government. There is no reason to believe that they could handle affairs or manage them
any better during a crisis of war than they have during peace times. War emergency would
only give them excuse to squander more money. The reason New Dealers want to get in
for a third term is that a war emergency would give them just the opportunity that they are
looking for to take over all of the properties and take away all of the rights of the people of
the United States. New Dealers want complete control and want dictatorship. They have
proved that from start to finish by taking away the rights of the people restricting and
limiting business of all kinds.

We have had wars and depressions in the past. We had panics in 1937, 1841-47, 1853,
1857, 1898, 1907, 1920-21, 1929 to 1933. We had able men at the head of the
government during those times who pulled us through those panics without any
government relief and each time the country emerged to greater prosperity. Why?
Because people worked from dawn to dusk. They did not ask for shorter hours and more
pay. They worked to make this the glorious country that it is. The government did not go
into debt billions of dollars during those periods of depression. The last depression could
have been handled the same way if the people had been allowed to go their own way, and
if the government had been on a cash basis, not running needlessly into debt. The only
way we will ever get out of this and solve the problem is to pay as we go.


HAS GOVERNMENT REGULATION HELPED THE PEOPLE?

What has been the result of restriction and regulation? Have they helped business or the
public or the investor? My answer is that they have not. My proof is that the government
regulation and restriction by the Securities & Exchange Commission has done the greatest
damage to this country that it is possible to have done. The result is that they have caused
thin markets and made stocks hard to sell, causing some of the sharpest and the greatest
declines in stocks in the history of the New York Stock Exchange. These things could not

                                              10
and would not happen if a free and open market was permitted and anyone who had the
money and wanted to buy stocks was permitted to buy them. We would not have had the
wide-open smashes on war scares if the corporations and their managers and the bankers
were permitted to go in and buy stocks and support the market. The trouble is that we
have had people trying to regulate something that they know nothing about. It has all been
a case of ignorance, of the blind leading the blind. The result is the “ox is in the ditch” and
the ignorant leader don’t know how to get the ox out.

The law of supply and demand must be allowed to work. In the long run, supply and
demand have always governed prices and always will and it is best for the people to have
a free and open market for everything. There is only one way for people to learn and that
is by experience and many people never learn anything by experience because they
simply hope and act on hope or fear. The blame for all the troubles of this country has
been placed upon Wall Street and the bankers. The New Dealers will never face the facts.
They will not answer questions, but the voters should demand of them in the Fall of 1940
that they answer for the promises that they made in 1932 and, again, in 1936. They should
be forced to tell the people why the budget has not been balanced, why they have not
fulfilled their promises, why so many people are still unemployed and why the taxes have
continued to be increased, why the liberties of the people have been taken away and then
see what they will promise for 1941 and the troublesome years to come. Of course, they
will promise everything, but what will they perform? What we want is not promises but
performances; we want acts not words, that is what will save America. Every man before
he casts a vote should study the record of the New Deal Administration; balance facts
against facts and then vote for someone who will, in his belief, give the people a square
deal.


EUROPE AFTER THE WAR

When the war ends, which it will one of these days, all Europe will be broke. Destruction
has been at the most rapid pace of any time in the history of the world. The expense of this
war, not only to Germany but to the Allies, has been the greatest of any time in history.
Therefore, when the war is over buying power will be reduced. Our customers in foreign
countries will be unable to buy our goods because they will not have the money to buy
with. They will have to go back to work and build a torn and wrecked Europe and will have
to sell goods for whatever they will bring. Therefore, they will compete with us in all of the
other markets. Should Hitler win the war, people will be worked like slaves and goods will
be sold at prices that will ruin the markets of the United States, South America and
anywhere else, as Dorothy Thompson has so ably put it. These are facts that must be
faced.

No matter how the war goes, or how the election goes, the United States faces dark days
and dark years ahead and the time has come to bid farewell to hope and to face facts and
sail the troubled seas with a competent pilot who will guide America safe through these
troublesome times. We want no more promises, no more false hopes, no more putting the
blame on Wall Street, the bankers and the money changers. We want the New Deal to
stand for its mistakes, to admit them and to make way for some able leaders who can pull
this country out of the mess. After the war in Europe is over, if we expect to do any
business, we will have to produce goods at lower prices. That cannot be done in the
United States with union labor demanding more pay and shorter hours. If the New Deal
continues in power, union labor will get what they want, because of the New Deal is


                                              11
elected this Fall, union labor will play a prominent part in helping to elect them. Therefore,
union labor must be paid off and the country must suffer later for it.


TIME CYCLES AND NATURAL LAW

I have devoted the best years of my life to a study of natural laws and time factors and
have read the bible many times to find in the pages of this book the wisdom of the ages. I
have discovered the time cycles and natural laws laid down in the bible which, if followed
by man, will guide him wisely and enable him to see into the future and to prepare and
protect himself and his country in times of greatest danger. History repeats in the lives of
men and nations. Wars occur and recur because human nature does not change and
because people follow hope and are influenced by fear instead of facts. It is a natural law
that action equals reaction in the opposite direction and for every effect there must be an
adequate cause. The world, Europe, and the United States included, have planted the
seed for a worldwide panic and depression and there is no escaping it. We have sown the
seed and we must reap the crop. The Bible tells us plainly that we reap exactly what we
sow. We must pay the price. Forewarned is forearmed. By studying and knowing
something of the future and what is ahead and preparing, we can mitigate the unfavorable
conditions which must follow. If a man goes out and gets drunk and spends all the money
he has, we know that he is violating the laws of health and that man cannot escape a
headache and having spent all his money, he cannot continue as prosperous as the man
who saves his money and never gets drunk, thereby protecting his health and making him
independent in the future.


WHEN WILL THE WAR END?

By the use of these Master Time cycles, which are based on the law of mathematics and a
repetition of time cycles that I have discovered, I can forecast important culminating
periods in the history of countries or wars just the same as I forecast important tops and
bottoms in the stock market. Using the dates of the beginning of the World War in 1914,
and the end of the World War on November 11, 1918, which I predicted by using these
cycles, then from the beginning of the present war on September 1, 1939, when Hitler
invaded Poland, I get the following important periods on the present war:

May, 1940 – On May 19, in the New York Herald-Tribune and the New York Journal-
American, I advertised that the tide would turn against Germany on May 25 and that they
would meet with greater reverses by August 10th, 1940.
July and August, 1940 – A very unfavorable cycle runs against Germany from July 10 to
August 10 and the war should go against Germany at that time. There is a possibility that
peace could come in August, as the time cycle indicates a possibility of the end of the war
by September 1, or after it has run one year.
October and November, 1940 – If the war goes beyond September 1, Germany will meet
severe reverses in October and November. November 1 to 11 – twenty-two years from the
end of the World War – is very bad and indicates reverses and resistance for Germany
and could be the end of the war.
February and March, 1941 – The next important period is February 8 to 15 and again
March 1 to 10, when Germany may meet reverses and the war may come to a sudden
end.
May, 1941 – If the war is still in progress, Germany will meet with great reverses and the
war might come to an end one year from May 10, 1940, when Hitler started his drive

                                             12
against Holland -a very important cycle. The period from May 1 to 25, 1941 is one of the
worse periods for Germany. The end of the war or peace should come buy that time at the
latest.


THE NEXT TEN YEARS FOR THE UNITED STATES

The period from 1940 to 1950 will be one of the most trying periods the United States has
ever passed through. Several important major and minor cycles culminate during this time.
It repeats a cycle of 100 years back or the period from 1840 to 1850, when we went
through a cycle of very low prices for commodities, bank failures, depressions and many
troubles. We only came out of that period of depression when gold was discovered in
California in 1849.

The cycle from 1940 to 1950 is one when the United States is almost sure to be involved
in war or revolution.. The war cycle for the United States ends in 1944 or 1945. Before we
pass out of that cycle, we will face the most serious troubles that this country has ever
known. We will have to pay the price for the mistakes of the past that the New Dealers
have invited upon us, either through ignorance or through failure to face facts and tell
people the truth.

The United States has piled up the most stupendous debt in its history in the shortest
period of time. The total debt of the United States government, all states and cities, is
somewhere between 160 and 180 billion dollars. Various economists differ on the total
debt of the United States, both public and private, but ranges anywhere from 225 to 300
billion dollars. Lambert Schuyler, who wrote “Think Fast America,” estimates the total as
high as 300 billion dollars. But no matter what anyone estimates, the facts are that the
debt is the largest ever in history and makes the burden of interest too great for the public
or the taxpayer to bear. These debts can never be paid and when billions of dollars are
repudiated, they will take away the backbone of the country or the main support – which is
the investor’s capital. This may bankrupt the insurance companies, savings banks and
other banks. If there is a severe decline, the large amount of government bonds held by
banks and insurance companies is enough to undermine the surplus of all the banks. It
has been figured that a 10% decline in the bonds could wipe out all the surplus of the
banks and put them in trouble. Just stop to think what would happen should government
bonds declin4e 50%, or sell at 50 or lower, which they will if this wild wave of spending
goes on. I am confident it will never stop if the New Dealers remain in power; then the
government will wind up in bankruptcy and our money worth 20c on the dollar or less.

The period from 1940 to 1950 is one in which we will have trouble of all kinds: Low prices
of commodities after the war is over; competition from other countries who can produce
goods cheaper than we can, which would cause the loss of our South American trade.

1940 – During the fall of 1940 business conditions will get worse. The decline in the stock
and bond markets will reduce the income, reduce the purchasing power of investors and
farmers, and at the same time taxes will be increased and the burden on the taxpayer will
get worse. Government expenses are going to be increased due to preparations for war,
and whether the govrnment increases taxes or borrows money and raises the debt, the
results in the final analysis will be the same because the burden will fall upon the taxpayer.




                                             13
1941 – The spring and summer occur in a cycle which is usually very unfavorable and
causes panics and depressions. Things may get some better in the late summer and fall of
this year.

1942 – This should be another year for low prices, with business bad. The worst period of
the year will be in the late summer and fall. There is danger of war or revolution this year.
This period will be ten years from 1932 when we were at the bottom of a terrible
depression.

1943 – April to October is probably one of the worst periods which this country has ever
passed through. There is grave danger of war or revolution at this time and there may be
both.

1944 – This is another year when internal troubles threaten and there is danger of war or
revolution. It will be a year in which the people will face a lot of hardships and find it hard to
make money. There will be unrest and unemployment.

1945 – I am happy to write that this year shows a turn for the better, both in business and
general conditions. In fact, there may be somewhat of a boom during the latter part of the
year.

1946 – Indicates some better business conditions, although mixed and uncertain at times.

1947 – An unfavorable year for general conditions. There is again danger of war or
revolution.

1948 – A better outlook this year for business. Stocks and commodities should be higher
and we may begin to see daylight.

1949 – There should be better business brought about by a new discovery or revolutionary
invention. This year may bring about the culmination of a minor or major business boom
which started in 1947 to 1948.

1950 – This year is unfavorable and great changes will take place. However, many
changes for the better are indicated during the last half of the year. After 1950, the outlook
for the world is better for peace and general prosperity.


NEW INVENTIONS AND DISCOVERIES

Necessity is the mother of invention. Men always put forth their greatest efforts when they
are forced to through circumstances and when they are in a crisis. War always brings new
inventions and new discoveries. People do not put forth their supreme efforts until they
have to, to save their lives and liberty. I predict that a new discovery will be made to use
sound and create a vibration that will destroy war weapons and overcome the movement
of armies and airplanes. The Germans great weapon has been to create fear, and when
this new invention is put into use, by the aid of sound it will paralyze the nerves so that
men will be unable to act or fight. Air waves will be circulated in such a way as to control
airplanes and increase their flight or prevent them.




                                               14
INFLATION OR DEFLATION

Every day I receive letters from people asking me when the big wave of inflation will take
place. More people have lost fortunes trying to catch the inflation wave then in other ways,
because unwise economists have talked inflation all the time and advised people to buy
stocks and commodities with the result that the deflation crash came and they have lost
their money. Everything that the New Deal has done or is doing is deflationary and not
inflationary.

All of my calculations and time factors indicate that this war will be of short duration, but
the expenses and destruction will be the greatest in history. Therefore, as has always
been the case in the past, deflation and lower prices will follow the end of the war.
Besides, the New Dealers have laid the foundation for deflation and bankruptcy and it will
come sooner or later. Should the wa4r continue for a longer period than anticipated, then
we may have advances in the cost of living and advances in commodities, but as for any
wild boom and advance in stocks due to inflation, I cannot see it and my studies do not
indicate it.

As far as the stock and commodity markets are concerned, we have to follow them as
events develop. My opinion is that raising the price of gold would not bring about another
wave of inflation as it did in 1933. It is possible that if the present New Deal government
continues, they will make some more foolish moves by expanding credit or starting a boom
by using the gold. If this takes place, we might have a mild wave of inflation, which would
be followed by a greater decline and deflation later. The thing to do is to face facts and not
hope for impossibilities. The acts of the New Dealers have been destructive to values and
the recent decline in the stock and commodity markets proves that. They have failed to
prove that a man can raise himself by pulling on his boot straps, or that we can spend our
way to prosperity by going into debt. There are certain economic laws and natural laws
that when violated, bring definite results. The New Dealers have violated all of these laws
and the final result will be deflation and bankruptcy, repudiation of debts, public and
private, unless businessmen are elected and put in charge of the government, who will
administer the government’s affairs as a business is run. This is the only salvation for
America.


THE REMEDY

I have painted a dark picture based on facts that America must face and based on my long
years of study of the economic situation, my scientific study of time cycles which is based
upon repetition of mathematical laws. Therefore it is but natural for the reader to ask, “Is
there no remedy, is there no hope, and can we in no way avoid some of the dangers and
pitfalls that lie ahead?” I have written facts as I see them. I have made many mistakes in
my life and that is why I can see the mistakes of other people, politicians and leaders. I
have learned by making mistakes and know that wisdom and knowledge are the greatest
powers in the hands of any man or any nation. There is always a hope and a way to have
a bad situation or remedy the matter, if we act in time and act on facts, not on false hopes
and promises. Action and not talk will help to carry us over the troubled waters with less
damage. For the past seven years people have talked against recklessness of the New
Deal, knowing it was wrong, but they have not acted; they have just talked. I have done
that myself. Thousands of others have done the same thing. Now the time is past for
words; the time for action is here. The taxpayers must organize. If the taxpayers of this
country were as well organized as union labor, they could stop the reckless expenditures

                                             15
in twentyfour hours and could stop the tyrants who rule our government, because the
taxpayer is the man who pays the servants of the people, and from the president down
they are all the servants of the people. At the present time the servants tell the master
what he has to do and tell the taxpayer just what they will take from him. If the taxpayers
organize, vote in the right way and stick together, they can refuse to pay these enormous
confiscatory taxes. If the taxpayers organize and stick together and make a firm refusal,
what is government going to do? Are they going to call out the army and shoot down all
the taxpayers? No, that will not happen. Not only the taxpayers, but all the people who
own any property or have any interest in or want liberty for the future must organize. They
must stick together and those who are not with us are against us and must be pointed out
and got rid of. We must eliminate the Fifth column in this country, no matter whether they
be German, Russian or freeborn Americans. If they are not going to support the
government of the people, for the people and by the people, then they must be placed as
an enemy.

We must face hard facts. Government waste must stop. Government expenses must be
cut. Money must stop being distributed to people who will not work and who get something
for nothing just because they will note to keep dictators in power. We must get rid of union
labor dictators who tell the government and the people what to do. The government must
be run on a business basis just like any other business. The budget must be balanced.
The government must be run by businessmen. If the New Deal wins in November, 1940,
the last hope for America is gone. There is only one thing to save this country and that is a
businessman at the head of the government, supported by a business administration and
businessmen elected to Congress and the Senate. We have plenty of businessmen in this
country with ability and brains to manage a business and make a success and we can get
businessmen to run the government and make it a success. Where would we be today if
Henry Ford was running the United State Government? We would be out of debt and have
money in the bank. If this government was managed as the United States Steel
Corporation is managed or as General Motors is managed, where would we be today? We
would be paying dividends and not seeking more assessments, increasing taxes and
putting the government further into debt. In my humble opinion, Wendell L. Willkie is one of
the ablest businessmen in this country and if he is elected President, we will see a
revolution in government management. He would do all in his power to pull us out of the
mess. General Hugh Johnson writes that it is time for the people to take action and says:
“We have a chance to protect ourselves only once in four years and this is the time. Page
Wendell Willkie. He is the only hope on the horizon who is fitted by temperament and train-
ing for this particular work.” Thomas E. Dewey might make a good President or Vice-
President. He is an able man and my opinion is that he would be a wonderful attorney-
general, as he would help to drive the Fifth Column out of the United States and clean up
the enemies in our midst. But no one man can perform miracles; no one man can undo all
the damage that the New Deal has done. We must pay for that debauch, but we can stop
a future debauch and sober up an pay off the past debts. The people do not know what
they want or need because they have listened to promises and hope so long. They need a
man who will tell them the truth and make them realize that this government must go on a
cash basis and not spend more than the income.


WHO SHOULD VOTE?

The people on relief, many of whom will not take a job when they can get it, are a burden
on the taxpayer and are working in opposition to the taxpayer and the businessman’s
interests. Why should these people be allowed to vote? It is a foregone conclusion that

                                             16
they will vote to keep the New Dealers in power, because they expect to get something for
nothing. The man who pays one million dollars per year in taxes to support this
government is allowed one vote, and the man who is living off the government, not willing
to work, can offset the vote of the man who pays one million dollars per year in taxes. Is
this fairness; is this justice or liberty? There are thousands of people on the government
payroll who should not be there, filling offices created for no other purpose than to repay
an election promise for support. The man who is holding a government job is going to vote
against the taxpayer because he is voting for a selfish motive – to keep in power the New
Dealer who in turn will keep him in his job. His vote should be limited or restricted. The
whole system and setup is wrong. The people who work, run businesses and support the
government by paying taxes have less rights than those who do not work and receive
something for nothing, but as I wrote before, the servants of the people are telling the
people who pay them what they have to do. This must and will be changed sooner or later.
Under the New Deal people who own no property and do nothing to support the
government are in the majority, yet they can cast votes to take all of the property and
money from those who have it and give it to the New Dealers to squander. This is not the
basis of free government. It is not what our forefathers fought for – to make this a land of
freedom and liberty.


NATIONAL LOTTERY

Our government has gambled foolishly with the taxpayer’s money and lost it. The
progressive people, sports or gamblers, if you want to call them that, are sending out of
the United States each year more than five billions of dollars to sweepstakes and foreign
lotteries. If a law should be passed establishing a national lottery and state lottery, then all
this money that goes to the foreign countries would go to the states and Federal
government and in twenty years or less time, by taking 20% or 30% out of each dollar
spent for lottery tickets, the national debt could be paid off and the people would be happy
and well satisfied.

The gambling instinct, the urge to take a chance is what made this country. This country
was made by people who were progressive, who were willing to leave the old world and
come here and take a chance in the new world. They risked their lives, their fortunes and
everything else. Men and women will always continue to risk money for profits and those
with a purely gambling instinct will risk money unwisely, as there is no moral law or man-
made law that will ever stop them from taking a chance. You cannot change human
nature. Therefore, why not let them take a chance where they will get a square deal and if
they win the money in a lottery, they will be paid off by the government? The government
can take a liberal share. This is a fair way of raising revenue and will pay off the debts and
get the government in shape. Proof of this is the amount of money that is made through
percentage taken at the race tracks through mutual machines.


SALES TAX

Every man, woman and child who enjoys the benefits of liberty and freedom in the United
States should help to support the government. The rich should not be forced to pay all of
the taxes. Everyone should pay according to his means and according to what he can
afford. If we had a sales tax in this country that covered everything, except food, then
everyone would help to pay the cost of the government. This would go a long way towards
reducing other taxes and the sales tax would be paid each day every time a purchase is

                                              17
made and would be so small that no one would feel it or complain about it. Many ways can
be found to raise revenue without increasing the burden of taxation. Taxes, as they are
today, on real estate and on business, must be reduced or business cannot survive,
neither can people continue to own real estate or own their homes.


REDUCED TAXES AND A BALANCED BUDGET

Those who save must be permitted a reasonable return on their money in the way of
interest rates. If the government keeps on cutting down interest rates to get control of the
banks and all the money in the country, this will make conditions worse. If the government
continues to take more and more in taxes, finally when there is no more to take, where are
we going to get the money to continue to pay the extravagant expenses of running the
government? If the people of the United States do not face the facts at the polls in
November, 1940, it will be too late to face them at a later date. Once the New Deal is in
again, facing facts then will not help us and a revolution is sure to follow later. The United
States needs a business administration now more than ever before. We need a man with
brains and experience, a man with knowledge who believes in a balanced budget, a man
who will tell the people all the truth and ask them to face facts before we are in war or
before we have a dictatorship and bankruptcy.


VENEZUELA – THE LAND OF HOPE AND PROMISE

After telling my readers the dark side of the conditions in this country many of them will
want to know what to do with their money and where they can invest it safely. I have
recently made a survey of Venezuela. This is the only country in the world today, as far as
I know, that is absolutely free of debt. The government owes no debt, has no outstanding
bonds, either external or internal. The government has a surplus of over 100 million
dollars; is paying cash for everything it buys and the people are not being taxed. They
have a democratic form of government. The banks are sound and money can be
deposited and withdrawn freely as there are no restrictions of any kind on deposits. The
government receives enough revenue from the oil companies to more than pay the
running expenses. This is why there are no taxes. The country is rich in mineral resources
and is the greatest oil-producing country in the world. It has virgin forests and thousands of
acres of rich soil. People from the United States are welcome. The government will give
land to people who want to farm and loan money to buy farm implements. There are many
opportunities for making money in Venezuela. The climate is about the same as Miami,
Florida. With mountains on each side of the country, the climate is delightful most of the
year. Maracaiba is only nine hors’ flying time by the Pan American Airway from Miami,
Florida. People looking for virgin soil or new business opportunities for the future will do
well to visit and investigate Venezuela. For further information in regard to Venezuela may
be obtained by writing to the Venezuelan Consul in New York or Miami, Florida, and by
writing to the American Ambassador at Caracas, Venezuela.


BACK TO GOD

We need and must have a spiritual revival. People have gotten too far away from God.
Selfishness and greed for power and possessions has increased and we must return to
reason soundness, justice and brotherly love. If reform is necessary and needed, it should
be done through the churches, and the morals of the people appealed to rather than

                                             18
passing laws to try to force them to reform. The New Dealers have passed so many unjust
laws that people have grown to disrespect these laws and refused to obey them, but once
they understand God’s laws and God’s ways, they will obey them because they know they
are for their own good.


WAKE UP AMERICA!

America must wake up. The women of the country must wake up and do some thinking
and acting. If they don’t, their investments will be swept away. All of the money for their
protection in the hands of the life insurance companies will be lost. Their future will be
indeed dismal. The truth has been concealed and kept from the people. The truth must be
told and they must face facts before it is too late and do something about it. We have a
great country and with and honest administration in Washington, we can overcome a lot of
our troubles, but without a change of policy and administration the worst can and will
happen.




W.D. GANN

Miami, Florida
May 24, 1940.




                                            19
