                    Gann Grids Ultra 5.0 Charting Application
                                        By Pivot Point Research



Overview …………………………………………………………...1

System Walk Through……………………………............................3

Getting Started....................................................................................5

Navigating Gann Charts………………………………………….…11

The Toolbar…………………………………………........................15

Astro Tools………………………………………………………….71

System Setup and Technical Requirements.......................................107


                             Overview of Gann Grids ultra

“New” 5.0 Version Requirements:

Windows 2000, Windows XP (with SP2), Windows VISTA (Home or Professional)

Important! If you have any outside windows applications other then the ones mentioned above
please contact technical support at pvtpoint@aol.com before downloading or purchasing Gann
Grids Print or Ultra versions.

Minimum 512 MB memory

20MB Free Disk Space

An Internet connection - For installation and registration

What Is the Gann Grids Program?
The Gann Grids Ultra program is a “Brand New” research program that allows its user to plot
and chart almost all stocks, commodities and index on a large number of harmonically perfect
grid chart sizes. These unique grid chart sizes are similar to the ones used by the late WD Gann,
George Bayer and RN Elliot within their unique and compelling forecasting research.
Are all of Gann and Bayer’s ideas included in as tools within its functions?
No....Though each book, course and research application has been painstakingly dissected over
the years I have only included the ones I have found to work best within GGU’S unique
functions.

What are the some of the benefits of this approach?
This keeping the best and throwing out the rest approach has equipped the Gann Grids ultra
program with some of the most controversial yet spectacular forecasting applications known at
this time. This concept also helps save its users days, weeks and even months of dead end trial
and error testing. Only the most highly probable price and time cycle concepts were kept as
individual tools.

Can I view results on screen?
Yes…Each of my specialized Gann Grids tools were built one at a time and made to be viewed
on screen with the simple click of a button. This simple click of a button feature will allow its
user to potentially see at a glance exactly what the 3 masters were trying to convey within their
legendary works. This feature will ultimately save its user days, weeks or even months of trial
and error research.

Most Gann and Bayer forecasting applications can now be done and viewed in just seconds!

Is this program only good for Gann and Bayer type research?
No… Even though this program was built with Gann, Bayer and Elliot’s unique astronomical
and mathematical forecasting concept in mind, several other high probability tools have been
added to the New 5.0 version. These extra applications truly make this one of the most open
ended forecasting programs on the market at this time!

Why was the program built?
Even though this program was built out of shear necessity as no other program gave the needed
testing freedom to unlock Gann, Bayer and other forecasting concepts on screen, the ultimate
reason behind its design was to allow its users to make some new and potentially unique price
and time cycle discoveries of their own. This task in my opinion was achieved by adding as
many mathematical and astronomical cycle tools as I could ……
With more to come in future upgrades..!
 .
Has this goal been achieved?
I feel Yes….As a many 2.0, 3.0, and now 4.0 version owners have already brought several
exciting and new concepts to my attention!….Making this study a truly fascinating and open
ended science!!

I call this science the science of “Astro-numerical forecasting and research” …….

Good luck and happy forecasting.

Robert Giordano
Owner of Pivot Point Research Inc
                                System Walk-Thru for Version 5.0
IMPORTANT!
Though several functions have been upgraded, added and changed on the 5.0 version’s tool bar, I have intentionally
left several screen shots of the 2.0, 3.0 and 4.0 tool explanations as they have NOT changed within this upgrade.
New additions will be marked accordingly.

New to 5.0 version        "Free" Yahoo Data now available
In the past many have asked if there were any “FREE” internet data sources Gann Grids Ultra
will work with…………….. And the answer is now “YES”!!

Gann Grids Ultra 5.0 will now work with most historical Yahoo data extracted from
www.finance.yahoo.com but must be converted into a CSV file first.

However this is a very simple procedure.

    1)     Open up the webpage www.finance.yahoo.com
    2)     Plug in the desired symbol into the “Get Quote” box
    3)     Click on “Historical Prices” section on left
    4)     Set date and time settings to the desired settings... IE. Start Date, End Date and time
           period (Daily, weekly, or monthly format)
    5)     Once done scroll down to “Download to Spreadsheet” then save to desired location.
    6)     Next, open data in Excel, expand column A to show all dates, then press at the same
           time ctrl/A. This will highlight all data within the file.
    7)     Once highlighted click from the top toolbar the “Data” button, then “Sort” by setting
           the first box to “Date” and click on Ascending, then press “File”, “Save” and click yes
           to save as CSV format.
    8)     Once the data is converted and saved go to Gann Grids Ultra’s file section, open the
           saved CSV file by clicking on “File” and highlight the desired time period from the file
           being read. …IE… Daily, Weekly or Monthly charts.
    9)     Then set the format as follows:
1)     File: Opens chart file being read
2)     File type: Data delimited
3)     Data delimiter: , (comma)
4)     Start line: 2
5)     Chart price adjustment: (keep as 1 unless dealing with intra dollar price formats)
6)     Field positions are:
     1) Symbol: 0
     2) Date: 1
     3) Open: 2
     4) High: 3
     5)    Low: 4
     6) Close: 5
     7)     The “Date” is: Delimited
     8) Date format is: MDY
     9) Delimiter is a: / (backslash)
     10) Year length is: 4
     11) And Month length is: NA
ASCII DATA SETUP

Decide on the chart frequency: Daily, Weekly, or Monthly

Important… make sure the data file chosen matches the program setting or the tools will
not work properly.

Import a data file: Either provided by the “Dial Data’s” downloader, Metastock data feed or
other outside ASCII format sources s

The format: A description of the ASCII fields must be predetermined before notifying the
charting program of the placement of the fields. Click “OK” once the format is set up.

Example ASCII Data Field: Symbol, Date, Open , High, Low, Close ….Positions may vary
depending on the ASCII file Data provider being used along with its delimiter( -, or tab )

Sample Data locations: 0, 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 comma delimited

To save chart: click on the first button on the toolbar, or simply, close the chart window, and
select the “Yes” option to save your chart. Select a location from the browser, and “Save”.
Getting Started
Prior to deploying the application: The user should be aware of the location and format of the
historical price data files. The prices will be plotted on the chart on their corresponding dates.
Perform the following steps:

1. Click on “Gann Grids Ultra” program icon from your Start Menu.
        a. Select the “File” option.
        b. Select “New Gann Chart”
2. Select your desired frequency. “Daily” will plot O, H, L, C prices for each weekday. (We
only use weekend setting on daily research projects as many of the astro dates will fall on the
Sat. or Sun. positions) A place holder will appear for Saturday and Sunday when
“Weekends” option is chosen.

   Important...The Gann Grids Ultra program was built for 365 day research only and will not give
   accurate readings without it, therefore weekends are inserted into your daily charts for versions 3.0,
   4.0 and 5.0. This means trading day charts are NOT an option at this time.
   Also understand the Gann Grids Ultra programs only have a limited print feature within its settings,
   however all files can be saved to your PC in the directory of your choice for easy retrieval.

    If a print feature is needed you may purchase the print version of Gann Grids located at
   www.pvtpointmktres.com at any time. The print version however though compatible with the new
   systems and data providers it will NOT allow the user to print any draw tools or overlays as
   constructed by the Ultra versions at this time. It will only print the Open, High, Low and Close bars
   leaving the rest to be done by hand.

1. “Weekly” data will contain the week high and low format, starting on Monday’s opening bell
   through Friday’s closing bell.
2. “Monthly” data will contain the monthly high and low price swings. It starts on the opening
   price on the first business day of the month, and runs through the closing bell on the last
   business day of that same month. The price file frequency should match the description, or
   desired results may not be obtained.
3. You must now select the price file you wish to plot, and information about the file. The
   application has four preset formats. If you used the “Dial Data Downloader”, Gann Grids
   Ultra knows the format of both fixed and comma-delimited files.
                • Data Delimited – the fields are separated by a delimiter like a comma or tab.
                    Use this if you have created a .CSV file from a spreadsheet.
                • Fixed Length – each row of data is the same length, and each field is the
                    same size and in the same position in every row. For example, the price may
                    be 8 characters long, and starts in the tenth position in each row, and the date
                    is 10 characters long and starts in the 20th position in each row.


       Please understand that not all ASCII files are the same so all data files must be
       examined thoroughly to find the appropriate numerical format!
Its numerical format is as follows:




   •   File type is Data Delimited.
   •   The Data Delimiter is a comma “,”.
   •   Start Line Number is 2.
   •   Symbol is field 1.
   •   Date is field 3.
   •   Open is field 5.
   •   High is field 6
   •   Low is field 7.
   •   Close is field 8.
   •   Date format is Fixed, “YMD”, with a 4 digit year and 2 digit month.
   •   If the Date Delimiter is “grayed” out (disabled), the delimiter will be ignored, so
       do not be concerned if it is not blank.

In order to determine what this screen should look like for other formats, open your price
file in Notepad. Maximize your screen, so you can see the position of each field.

Since Gann Grids Ultra only reads the Date, Open, High, Low, and Close positions
you must locate the exact position of each within your ASCII file………

EXAMPLE 2
In this example the file type is data Delimited, the Delimiter is a Coma, the Start line is
set at 2, and the date format is MDY. There is no symbol placement so the symbol space
is set at 0, the Date is in the 1st position, Time is left out so the open is set at place 3,
High is at 4, Low is at 5, and Close is in place 6

 T=TIME, O= OPEN, H=HIGH, L=LOW, C=CLOSE, V= VOLUME, OI= OPEN
INTEREST
DATE      T    O H         L     C      V    OI
2/12/2007,12,35.50,36.25,35.50,36.15,99999999,0
2/13/2007,12,36.15,36.50,35.85,35.90,99999999,0
2/14/2007,12,35.80,36.15,35.75,36.00,99999999,0
2/15/2007,12,36.00,36.00,35.50,35.50,99999999,0
2/16/2007,12,35.20,35.70,34.40,35.00,99999999,0
2/17/2007,12,35.00,35.20,34.30,35.00,99999999,0
2/18/2007,12,34.70,35.00,34.40,34.55,99999999,0
2/19/2007,12,34.55,34.65,34.20,34.30,99999999,0
2/20/2007,12,34.40,34.65,33.90,33.90,99999999,0
2/21/2007,12,34.00,34.85,33.90,34.35,99999999,0
2/22/2007,12,34.50,35.10,34.45,34.90,99999999,0
2/23/2007,12,34.90,35.90,34.90,35.75,99999999,0




If the file is “Delimited”, select your delimiter from the list, or type in another. If your
delimiter does not appear in the list, Gann Grids Ultra will use whatever you typed in. It
will not be able to distinguish a character that may appear elsewhere from a field
separator.

For example…if your fields are separated by “/” and your date is also “/” delimited,
Gann Grids Ultra will be not be able to parse your fields correctly. So, please try to use
the delimiters provided.

New! Price Multiplier - Chart Price adjustment changes the data. This multiplies each
Price by the number selected. For example, when working with indices the prices can get
quite high and the prices can fluctuate to great extents. For easier viewing, you can
reduce the prices, by using a multiplier of .01; a price of 1000 becomes 10.00. This is
also useful for commodities priced at penny-scales. A price of 2 cents (.02) can be
converted into 2.00 with a price multiplier of 100.




Start Line Number… Start Line Number is the row where your actual data begins. For
example Metastock begins placing data on row (line) 2. The first row is a heading. Dial
data starts its data on row 1, along with no header row.

Now determine where (what position), the following fields are:
  • Symbol – may not appear in all files.
  • Date – required field – also note the date format. Gann Grids Ultra must know
      how the date appears. “YMD” means the date appears with the year first, then
      month, then day.

Examples are… 1999-09-15; 99/09/15; 1999-Sep-15; 990915; 19990915; 09/15/1999
 The date delimiter is the character that separates the year from the month and day.
 The date may be fixed format in which case there is no delimiter, the month will always
be 2 digits, and the year may be 2 or 4 digits. (Also see example above)

   •   Open price – required field -Opening price of the time bar file

   •   High price – required field -High price of the time bar file

   •   Low price – required field -Low price of the time bar file

   •   Closing price – required field –Closing price of the time bar file

Supply the Position for “Delimited” files: if the symbol is the first field you see, place a
“1” in the symbol position. If a field does not appear, place a “0” in the position. If the
       date is the third field you see, place a “3” in the position. For Delimited files, the
       position is its field number, not the actual cursor position. The Length of the field is
       disabled because the length may vary.

       Supply the Position and Length for “Fixed” files by using a text editor like Notepad. (If
       you have Microsoft Word, open your file with Word, by Left-clicking on the file and
       “Open With” option. Word will supply the “Col” – column – your field position.) For
       Fixed files you must know the actual position by locating your cursor position. Using
       Word, just use the “Col” located on the bottom line, below your document. You should
       be on Page 1, Sec 1, Ln 1. Place the cursor on the first character of each field. This is
       your “position”. Supply the Length by counting how many characters a field occupies.
       For example the opening price may be 10 characters long – 5 digits before the decimal
       point, 1 decimal point, 4 digits after the decimal point = 10 characters long.

       Date Type is “Fixed” if all the dates are the same size, or “Delimited” if the size varies
       from row to row. Determine the place of the day, month and year to decide on the date
       format. If the date is fixed, the delimiter is ignored.

       If your data comes from the same source or if your entire price files have the same format
       you only need to go through this process once as the program will remember and save
       your most recently used settings. Also, if you save your charts, this process is bypassed,
       even if you update your prices – as long as you do not change the name of your price file.
4. Press “OK” when finished. IMPORTANT! If the field definitions are not accurate, you will
   get an error about the format. If you are certain you have the correct “Start Line” then do not
   continue to load the file, just try it again. If you have started on the wrong line, continue to
   load the data. Gann Grids Ultra will try to pass each line. You will be prompted for errors
   until you decide to stop.
5. Gann Grids Ultra will remember your most recently used settings.

You are now ready to use the toolbar. We recommend you maximize your Gann Grids
Ultra window to 24 grids per square inch or larger at first to get the most beneficial view of your
historical price range. If you choose to open additional files simultaneously, you can tile your
windows horizontally or vertically, or cascade if needed.


       METASTOCK DATA

       The Gann Grids Ultra 4.0 and 5.0 versions were formatted to include the Metastock
       data. This Metastock format can easily be setup and downloaded straight from the tool
       bar once an account has been established.

       The first time you use this format, establish the Metastock folder containing your
       Metastock master file and data. Once GGU knows this location, all the stocks in the
       folder will appear on your list. Select a stock, press “Draw Gann Chart” button. Your
       chart will be drawn and this screen will close.
       To establish an account just follow the “Free 30 day trial link” located at
       http://www.pvtpointmktres.com under data providers or click on the hyperlink within the
       start menu of Gann Grids set-up files



Navigating Gann Charts
Once the data has been automatically plotted on your chart, the most recent activity will appear
on your starting screen. You can now scroll left into the past, right into the future and page up
and down for prices.

New! By passing your mouse over the chart you can now locate the date and price for a more in-
depth look at the current dates data. Right click your mouse on the date you wish to view and a
pop up window will appear. In addition to providing the price information of that dates open,
high, low and close the pop-up box will also displays the specific astro tools highlighted as well.
The program will plot an almost unlimited number of historical files along with scrolling up to 5
years into the future ….
It will also scroll down to 0 and up to 1000 grids in price.

EXAMPLE
If the chart is set at a grid scale 8 and the price scale is set at 1 you can view up to 8000 in price,
if its set at 12 you can view up to 12000 in price, set at 16 will allow you to view up to a 16000
price. If however, the price scale is set at .50 divide these numbers by 2…etc, etc…
The Gann chart below represents a Daily data with weekends.




Scroll your mouse across the chart to view the date, O, H, L, C and grid coordinates. This is
located at the bottom right side of your screen.

The date range of the current view is located next to the “Draw” button. This section will tell
you the start and end date being viewed on the entire screen.

The buttons and fields on the bottom of the screen: (Control Box)
   • “<<, >>” – will allow the user to scroll back in time or into the future. The chart will
      scroll as far back as your data and up to 5 years into the future on all charts.
   • The Date fields – if you would like to go directly to a date, instead of scrolling, just enter
      the date by choosing your month, day and year. Only valid dates will be accepted.
   • Scroll Frequency – the next two fields represent how fast to horizontal scroll, for
      example “Week 1” would scroll left or right, 1 week at a time, month will scroll 1 month
      at a time and year will scroll1 year at a time.
   • “Draw” – will redraw the screen. After you change any field, the Draw button will
      apply the changes.
   • “Grid Size” – the scale of the chart. Choose from preset list, or enter your own value.
      You can add any integer between 4 and 40.
   • Chart Price – adjusts the vertical axis of the chart. On a chart price of 1, the chart will
      increment in 1 dollar interval. A minimum value of .01 and maximum of 9999 is the
      allowable range.
   •   Note: Gann Grids Ultra version #1 had a scroll up limit of 211 pages so the maximum $1
       price scale is $8440 on a grid size of 40, a price scale set at $2 would give a max of
       $16,880 on this same grid size …this feature has now been changed in version 3, version
       3 now has a 1000 grid setting.
   •   Price Adjustment – positions the chart according to the price adjustment scale. Choose
       from preset list. We however recommend you keep it set at 1.
   •   Vertical Scroll arrows – page up and down to view prices above or below the viewable
       screen. Note that on charts with a price scale of .25 and less the scroll frequency is
       slow, therefore the same page (price range) may appear more than once when pressing
       the scroll tabs. Your screen is NOT frozen; the same price range may be loading two or
       three times before changing.
   •   “NEW” Go to Price button- This new feature brings the chart directly to the page of a
       selected price. This feature will save time scrolling page by page searching for the user
       defined price as was some-what cumbersome in the 2.0 version.

The Main Menu
The menu consists of four sub-menus:
   1. File:
          a. New Gann Chart – create a new Gann chart
                  i. ASCII Data – ASCII format, select the frequency of data
                         1. Daily – the frequency of prices is daily
                         2. Weekly – the frequency of prices is weekly
                         3. Monthly – the frequency of prices is monthly
                         4. Yearly – the frequency of prices is yearly
                 ii. Metastock format – create a new Gann chart from Metastock data
          b. Open Saved Chart – re-open a previously created Gann chart. You will browse
             through your computer and select a “.CHT” file created by Gann Grids Ultra.
          c. There may be an occasional problem opening a chart created in a previous
             version of Gann Grids. In a case where any of your overlays, drawings, tools, etc
             is not read properly you may adjust your chart in “Notepad” by removing the line
             causing the problem. Gann Grids Ultra will notify you of where the problem lies.
             For severe problems please send your .CHT file to Pivot Point Technical Support
             for reformatting.
          d. EXIT the application.
   2. Run:
          a. Trade Tracking Spreadsheet – open the spreadsheet template in EXCEL. You
             must have Microsoft Excel to open the spreadsheet, which you may customize.
          b. Pivot Point Data Downloader to retrieve Dial Data prices. You must have a Dial
             Data account, not provided by Pivot Point, and an internet connection to
             download data from Dial Data server. Note to all VISTA users: Please take your
             Firewalls down temporarily (prior to opening the Data Downloader) to allow the
             data to download. Your transmission will hang and appear unresponsive if a
             Firewall is up.
          c. Metastock Downloader to retrieve Metastock formatted data. You must have a
             Metastock account, not provided by Pivot Point, and an internet connection to
             download data from Metastock server.
   3. Window:
          a. Cascade: arrange windows (Gann charts) in a cascading format.
         b.    Tile charts horizontally across screen.
         c.    Tile charts vertically across screen.
   4. Help:
         a.   (F1) Contents: for full application “Help” system, with word searching.
         b.   Note to all VISTA users: GGU Help system is engineered by WinHelp32. The
              WinHelp32 feature is not included with VISTA’S operating system as it was in
              prior Windows versions. To utilize GGU Help, you must have WinHelp32. If
              you click on F1 and GGU Help appears, WinHelp32 has already been installed. If
              you get a Microsoft error message when clicking F1, follow the Microsoft link
              and instructions to install WinHelp32. There are different downloads which
              depend on the edition of VISTA. For example, “Home Edition”, “Professional
              Edition”, 32-bit or 64-bit. Microsoft will walk you through determining which
              download is right for your system. Close all your Gann Grids Ultra windows,
              including tools, then follow the installation directions.
           c. About: view application version and your product key.

“New” 5.0 version toolbar!
Descriptions are given in order of appearance from left to right. Several new tool
bar icons have been added to the 5.0 version




Save Button…
This button saves the name of the price file, so you can get up-to-date prices without losing
your chart information. Saves format of your price file, to bypass the chart-settings screen. It
will save all the waves, highlighted dates, research cycles, overlays and drawings. When you
update your price files, please keep the names of your files consistent for accurate retrieval of
charts.
Paste Button
Paste dates on the clipboard. This function will pass information on the clipboard, when
searching for dates. If you are running “Astro Tools”, press this button after you have copied
dates. The dates appearing on the clipboard will be highlighted on the chart.
Maintain Highlighted Date button
         When you click this button, a panel will appear over your chart. The dates on the
clipboard will appear in the left list. The dates that you have highlighted will appear in the center
list. The dates you have removed will appear in the “Recycle Bin” on the right. Here, you have
the opportunity to manipulate and view the dates returned by the Astro tools and other sources.
You may add, remove, highlight, un-highlight and change colors of the date series in this section
Example: Using astro tool 2 (aspect highlight).
After doing a research project on the tool simply highlight the dates to be viewed on screen
and press “copy”. This will store the highlighted dates.
Step 1
Step 2
Once done open the clipboard application and click “past new dates from clipboard”.




This will send the highlighted dates to the clipboards left hand panel. At this point you can add
the color of your choice to the dates to be highlighted by clicking on the colored box.




Then press “ok”
Once the color has been chosen click on the “highlight” button at the bottom of the application.
This will send the dates and color directly to the chart for an easy view.

After the user is satisfied with the color and dates next click on the double arrow along the top
right of the first sections box. This will add the data to the second section for further analysis.




In this box the user can also change the color, unhighlight or clear the list.
This section also condenses the astro tools data to just the tool number, aspect and start date for
that tools research. This is useful when using several astro tool applications at the same time. It
makes it easier to keep track of the data. By clicking on a set of dates from this second box the
color chosen for that application will appear in the colored box at the bottom of this section. Also
by clicking on a date set the user can view the entire date series by clicking on “view all dates”
button.




Once the data has been added to this section the dates and tool description can also be viewed by
right clicking your mouse directly over a colored bar chart
The last section of this application is the recycle bin. The user can by clicking the double arrows
facing the third section send the selected data set to the recycle bin. It can be brought back to the
center box by clicking on the opposite direction double arrows.




Gann Grids Ultra also has the ability to copy and paste any set of dates to the highlight section from
almost all outside source. This feature will allow the user to save and highlight the ones wanted directly to
the chart! …This feature is for maintaining and testing any outside astro, mathematical or other trading
systems containing a series of formatted dates.

Here’s how you do this:
   1. Get your dates into any readable format, some examples are: text file in notepad, a WORD
        document, a spreadsheet, or any software that will allow you to copy to the clipboard.
   2. Select your data, which will include the dates. Even if you have a WORD document, select entire
        paragraphs, pages, or if necessary, the entire document. If you have a text file in ASCII format,
        select the lines you need. As long as you can read it, and it looks like a date, Gann Grids Ultra
        can read it! (Also make sure your Regional Settings are set to US settings).
   3. “COPY” your selection from an “EDIT” menu or press <CTRL>C.
   4. Open the Gann Grids Ultra window.
   5. If you want to highlight the dates without seeing them first, just click the second button on the
        toolbar, the clipboard icon. If you want to see what you have parsed before highlighting, click the
        third button on the toolbar, the green highlighter icon. Under the first list box, press “Paste New
        Dates from Clipboard.” From here you can remove, highlight and save dates.

It is an easy “copy and paste” operation that works with many outside programs.
Note Gann Grids Ultra has a preset color for a single date highlighted by multiple sources. We
use a gold shade, which cannot be changed, if a date is highlighted by more than one source. In
turn, this shade of gold cannot be a user-defined color.
“NEW” Highlight price button




This button will add to the chart any user defined price diagonally across the chart .This tool is
perfect for outside price points discovered holding support or resistance throughout the charts
history. To highlight a price just add the price in the window and click “highlight”. To un-
highlight just double click on the price in the window and click “un-highlight” …
Plot new waves button




This button has a drop down window showing several features:
 Declination chart……..
 Latitude chart…………
 Planet /prices…………
 Planetary Speed Lines
The 4 tools are used within the “Advanced” version only! And will be further explained in the
“Advanced” section
 The first 2 will show at a glance the sin wave along with dates of any planets latitude and
declination crest. Many trend change dates were found to be somewhat consistent around them.
Declination chart




Latitude chart
Astro Tools Menu button
Drop down menu showing a list of all Astro Tools …Explained in Advanced section




Text button
Place your text anywhere on the chart and select a font, size and color. A small gray box will
appear on the screen. You can click anywhere on the grid to move the text around. Once you
press the “Enter” key, you commit to the location.
Important…You must hit the “Enter” key to come out of Text Mode or lines will be drawn
where text should be.
Draw Lines button
A small panel will appear in a drop down menu asking you to choose the type of line function
you would like to use. Simply click on the one you want. This drop down box is in the form of a
front slash / and is located next to the “Text” tool.
“NONE”…This feature will allow the user to draw trend lines along with other needed lines.
Example ….Trend lines




When using this tool as a trend line function it draws straight or angular lines to help determine
the price direction and slope of an individual market.

Example 2…… Drawing Gann Square overlay lines
This function will also allow the user to construct the Gann price and time angles within each
overlay one line at a time. Since all the lines are not needed all the time I left it up to the user to
add them as needed. They can be constructed as shown above.

However A special Gann Star toggle has been added to the squares overlay tool to draw the
entire star all at once for the user’s convenience.

 Color… You can also select the pen width and color for each tool within the selection box.

 How to draw lines…Each line is drawn with a simple Click and drag format. Start a line by
 placing your pointer over the spot you want to start then click and hold your left mouse button,
 then drag to the desired location and Release when complete,

 To exit draw mode...Click “Done” on the panel to come out of draw mode.

Time bar Count….. This draw tool option allows the user to Click and drag a line in order to
count the exact number of grids from a user defined starting point to a user defined ending point.
This feature is exactly what WD Gann would do in order to calculate the average length of time
from cycle to cycle. ….Tops to bottoms, Bottoms to tops, Bottoms to bottoms, and Tops to tops.
These where the most famous cycle counts used by Gann.




 Price bar Count. This drawing tool allows the user to calculate with the same drag and drop
 format as the previous draw tool but instead of calculating the number of bars from point A to
 point B this draw tool calculates the price range between two points. You can calculate the
 difference in price from a high to a low, low to a high and others. Gann used this type of
research to see if he could find similarities in price fluctuations from various markets before
tops and bottoms were confirmed.




Time and price bar count
This button allows the user to draw a line while at the same time view how many boxes are
being crossed vertically or horizontally while it’s being drawn. This is for drawing price and
time squares along with other unique outside applications.
Change Cursor, Color, Line length, and Line Thickness in draw mode
This draw drop down box also allows the user to change the cursor, line length, thickness and
color to be drawn and viewed on the chart with a simple click of the mouse. If you want to view
the draw line extended into the future just put in the provided location marked with a “0” the
number of boxes you wish the line to extend and left click your mouse to the starting point and
drag to the ending point. This line will then extend the number of boxes into the future. This
function also works with the angle tool discussed later on.

AB Range tool
A B Range Tool is no longer located within the draw tool’s drop down box
It has now been added as a “new” drop down application on the 5.0 tool bar.
The AB range tool also features several new applications within this upgrade.




This draw tool now allows the user to research the theory behind Gann’s range divisions of 8,
Elliot’s divisions of Fibonacci numbers and golden mean calculations one at a time or all at once.

According to Gann and RN Elliot the divisions of the price range were extremely important
points, places and prices to watch for support and resistance levels. Gann found the 3/8, ½, and
5/8 divisions of the range should be considered the most important first then the rest. RN Elliot
found the Golden mean numbers of .382, .50, and .618 to also be important. However, .382 is
very close to the 3/8 or .375, .50 or ½, and .618 or Gann’s 5/8 or.625 thus reconfirming Gann’s
divisions of 8.

With this new and improved AB Range tool the user can now set up totally separate price and
time division charts one at a time.
1. File button …………….A. File button allows the user to Save the AB Range division list
                             B. Restore user AB Range
                             C. Restore default settings
2. Calculator button …….The calculator button gives the user the ability to do outside division
research both in price and time

3. AB Range toggle …….AB Range toggle is used to separate the research into price or time
division research.
Price Divisions (divides point A and point B’s price range into desired dissections)




Time Divisions (divides point A and point B’s time range into desired dissections)




 4. Use standard AB Range divisions toggle ……..This button is used to automatically divide
the price research into divisions of 8.
5. Add break down percentage button……..This button allows the user to add as many price
or time divisions as he or she would one division point at a time. A special list will appear in the
middle of the application box showing the list. The divisions are viewed all at once on the chart
once the click and drag line is completed. This application is great for not just Gann and Elliot
time and price research but many other support and resistance techniques as well.
Price
Time




Or both




This tool also gives the user the ability to change the Pen size, Line color and Time bar color
with a simple click of the mouse.
       Angle Tool...




       This tool displays a changing angle tag in a yellow pop up box as you maneuver your line
       in a left click and drag motion. Once you release the mouse button, the tag will disappear
       and the size of the angle will be placed next to the line.




WD Gann spoke a great deal about special angles being a main tool for trend analysis and
forecasting and due to this, this tool was built. What it does is allows its user to draw not just
each and every Gann angle from every top, bottom, or zero point position but ALL angles as
well from any point on the chart in a 90* to 90* format. This is done with the same simple click
and drag feature as the draw tool. Due to Gann’s angle research being at the heart of most
researchers this draw tool was made as versatile as possible.
An Important Note….Over time I have personally found many markets use other angles
holding trend rather then just the unique ones mentioned by Gann. At times these other angles
held a much better forecast then just the ones given in his books and courses. Due to this, this
tool works in two ways, first to research all of the Gann angles and crossover points starting from
tops, bottoms and zero and second to search for all other unique angles that may exist between
tops and bottoms or bottoms and tops within a specific market price and time structure.

Example…Gann’s 45 and 63.75 degree angle




       Multiple Gann angles from bottoms and zero point along with others
A unique angle of 68.2-9 degrees shown to forecast highs and lows on GE




Drop down angle tool box
When using Angle tool drop down box, 3 applications will appear:
            o Normal - will draw the angle by the simple drop and drag format as
                the line will start and end in exact relation to the users start and end
                point.
            o Extended will draw the angle starting at the user defined start point
                but will extend the user set number of boxes into the future. Just add in
                the special box the numbers of boxes you would like the lines to travel.
            o New! User Defined Angles… This application allows the user to add
                as many angles as he or she chooses and draws them all at once! This
                feature will draw any user defined angles from any starting point and
                in any direction. Just adding the desired angle to the angle dialog box,
                the direction you want the angles to travel, up, down, left or to the
                right and the number of boxes you want them to extend.
            o Then left click your mouse when pointer is in place.
Normal Function- draws the angle in a simple drop and drag format. The line will start and end
in exact relation to the users start and end point.




Extended Function- draws an angle starting from a user defined start point and will extend the
user set number of boxes into the future. Just add in the special dialog box the numbers of boxes
you wish the lines to travel. Once you let go of the mouse the line will continue at the desired
angle until it reaches the set number of boxes.
User Defined Function- will allow the user to add the angle of the user’s choice rather then
using the drop and drag feature one at a time. This feature will draw any user defined angle
from any starting point and in any direction. Just add the desired angles to the angle box, the
direction you want them to travel, up, down, left or to the right and the number of boxes you
wish them to extend. Right click on a date and price and all angles will be drawn all at once.

New 5.0 formats!




Just drop your pointer over the date and price you want the angle to start and left click once!
Exit draw and angle tool button
Use this button to exit all draw and angle tools.
Also added to the 4.0 and 5.0 version is the ability to change the price scale setting without
changing the angles on the chart. In older versions of GGU just the ability to view all angles
placed on the chart one price scale setting at a time was allowable. This “New” enhancement
will now give the user the ability to change the price scale vibration one scale at a time
searching for a better fit without needing to redraw all the angles on the new price scale. This
feature also holds true for the “Gann Star”. In the older version if the price scale setting was
changed the user needed to redraw all the angles all over again.

Square Root Angle Button
The square root angle tool draws angles in perspective to the horizontal axis. The user chooses
the direction of the lines, color, pen width and divisions of lines to be drawn. You also control
how far in the future you want them to travel by changing the number within the “max
difference between start and end option”.




This tool works off Gann’s square of 9 spiral chart equation. This equation states that by taking
a number of a high or low, getting its square root, adding a whole or fraction number to it, re-
squaring it then drawing a line from point A (starting price) to point B (recalculated price) in the
number of days found through the square root process you will get an important angle of
support or resistance in price and time.

 This research is extensively explained in my one on one lesson series, however several other
outside books on Gann’s square also do a great job explaining this premise.
Example 1
Example 2a




Example 2b




  This tool was built to help test Gann’s square root relationships to price and time points found
within his master spiral calculator. Gann used a special spiral chart to count time and price
increments (thus the name calculator) while at the same time noticing where the major angles
crossed within it. These points were then converted to a line using a special square root
calculation. This calculated line would start at a predetermined high or low point and cross at a
specific price on a specific date in the future then extended, thus formulating a Gann time and
price angle. Once this line was stretched into the future many support and resistance points can
be located which could not otherwise be found.

Time cycle research
Cycle Research tool … When this button is clicked a small panel will appear asking the user to
manually enter a start date directly into its panel box or by just clicking on the chart itself, then
select the number of bars in a cycle you wish to explore along with the number of variance to be
used. Once done an exact main cycle will be drawn from the users starting point and forward
into the future up to 5 years. The variance setting will also highlight a user defined number of
boxes before and after the main cycle line.
The user can also select a color for both the cycle and variance setting by clicking on the
colored boxes.
Example… Say the user wanted to plot a 14 week cycle in blue with a 2 bar variance in red
which starts on 2/14/03. A red line will appear on 2/14/03 and a blue line will appear on the
exact 14th line along with all future multiple bars of 14 with 2 red lines before and 2 red lines
after each blue line.
Since I found there is no such thing as an exact 14, 29 or 36 week cycle or any other exact time
Cycle length I developed this tool. This tool will allow the user to start at any date in the past
and on any time scale setting such as daily, weekly or monthly and start a fixed numbered cycle
from that point through the last date in your data file and progress up to 5 years into the future.

What this tool is used for is to experiment with different cycle lengths while at the same time
adjusting the variance setting. The variance setting is a useful feature I had added to show a user
defined area before and after the fixed number cycle. This way you could see if any cycle length
is more consistent with a +/- variance as no cycle is exact.

This tool in the 2.0 version only allowed up to 3 research cycles per chart however the new 3.0
and beyond now allows the user to test as many cycles as he/she wishes…It’s virtually
unlimited!

Overlay button
This button allows the user to choose from any one of 3 specialty overlays located in a drop
down menu. You can choose from Fibonacci number overlay, Numerical squares, half square
and quarter square overlay, or a fixed number square such as the square of 45, 90, 144 and
others. Its user defined!
Fibonacci Overlay
RN Elliot found the unique number sequence of 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233,
377 …etc…etc., all the way to infinity also known as the Fibonacci sequence to be not just
consistent within his found time structure but were also consistent throughout nature herself.
This tool was built to see, starting from major high and low dates just when these special time
sequences are due. This tool also shows at the same time the price sections related to this special
sequence as well. New! Halves and Quarter lines options were also added to the new 5.0
version
Example1




Example 2
Numerical squares, half squares and quarter square overlay
Gann believed numerical squares could be used to find time and price balancing points that
coincide with natural squares.

But what exactly are natural squares?
Natural squares are specific numbers of points up in price or bars over in time that count the
exact numbers of grids equal to numerical squares.

Numerical squares are numbers starting from 2x2=4, 3x3=9, 4x4=16, 5x5=25, etc., all the way
through a progressive series. Gann however, felt that his unique overlay of 144 was very
important as he stated in his courses “Within the 144 overlay all natural squares up to 144 can
be found”.

What do Natural Squares and Half Squares have to do with forecasting markets?
Gann as well as other found through this unique research that the natural square locations where
important places to watch for changes in trend. To him they would show at a glance the support
and resistance levels as well as the time increments of potential changes in trend. Carl Futia also
found this to be true in his unique price square research. However through extensive trial and
error research I found this special tools application is usually more consistent after the proper
price scale was found first.

“New” 5.0 Squares tool overview
Full squares in black with 45 degree angle




Half squares.
The half squares are set the same way as the full squares but instead of using only a whole
number we use half numbers as well.

Example of half squares: 2.5x2.5=6.25, 3.5x3.5=12.25, 4.5x4.5=20.5, 5.5x5.5=30.25, etc

Half Squares in Red
Quarter squares in green




Choosing a starting point…By placing your pointer/mouse over an exact price and date then
clicking your left mouse button will send that special date and price to a file within the
application. Once this is done click the “overlay” button and the overlay will appear starting
from that exact price and date location progressing into its future.

The 5.0 numerical square version not only features both price and time squares on screen at the
same time as in the older 4.0 version but this version also allows the user to separate both time
and price squares with a single click!

On the right side of the new 5.0’s application box there is now a drop down box asking the user
to choose from one of three choices:
 1. Show price and time lines
 2. Show time lines
 3. Show price lines
Both price and time numerical squares




Time line numerical squares only
Price line numerical squares only




In order to temporarily clear a current overlay from a chart just right clicks on its date located in
the dialog box and highlight. Then click “clear selected” button. This will temporarily remove
the overlay from the chart but will keep the date in the dialog box itself. If you want to bring it
back just click on the “overlay” button and it will return. If you want to permanently remove an
overlay double click on its date and it will be removed for good.

Price and time square overlay
Gann found the numerical overlays of 52, 90, and 144 to be very important tools in determining
the direction and trigger levels within individual markets. He also felt the high price squared,
the low price squared, and both the price and time range squared where also important points to
watch.

This research was done by taking a high or low price from a trend change date and overlaying a
special drawing over it. By moving up or down in price an exact number as the price itself along
with over in time would complete what was known to Gann as a time and price square.

This specialized overlay could be used in two ways, first, to draw blank overlays over the chart
used for locating potential division point of both price and time support and resistance levels,
and second, to add the special drawing angles as constructed within his unique overlay pattern.
(Given within his master courses)

This special pattern as drawn by Gann tends to show many interesting and important points of
force when the proper price scale is found first.
New Gann star option button... For those who rather not draw the Gann start line by line can
now simply click on the square of your choice and check the Gann Star option. Once the square
is overlaid it will automatically draw the star within its parameters.




Square of 90 # 1
Square of 90 # 2




Square of 90 with price vibration set at .70
Time range of 37




Time Range of 30
IBM low price of 54 doubled and divided by 10 …...or the square of 108




Price range of 39 squared
Multiple squares of 39 on a weekly chart




Square of 90 divided by 10 or multiple 9 month periods with Gann star
Square of 90 with Gann star 2




Multiple Squares of 90 with star angles from major weekly low
Square of 52 starting from a major weekly low with Gann star added




The Clear button
 The clear image button will erase all drawing images and text from the current chart. This will
occur all at once so make sure you want to erase ALL work done before you click this button!
IMPORTANT!
Once you press this button, you cannot get the images back unless they are restored from a
saved-chart. After clicking this button a special box will pop up asking if this is what you want
to do.




The Undo Button
This button clears the angle, square root angles, lines, or text drawn in a last one in… first one
out order. The items are stored in a FILO method (First in – last out), so you can clear all
images, one at a time.




The Print Button
The Gann Grids Ultra program has limited print format. This limited print feature just sends the
current screen to the printer and CAN NOT print full length charts nor can it print full screens
with dates. The program was built strictly to do the special research on screen then to save your
research data to an ASCII file in a location of your choice.
If a full print version is needed…. The Gann Grids Printing Version (sold separately) has
been modified to except the file generated with the Gann Grids Ultra program. This add on
printing feature allows the user to print the entire chart with dates only (see Gann Grids Print
version manual located at http://www.pvtpointmktres.com/guide.pdf ) “but will not” allow the
drawing tools, overlays, and colored bands to print.

View Metastock data button
This button will allow the user to view the Metastock chart data after an account has been
established. Please be aware that due to Metastock security locking limitations only one
Metastock chart can be opened at a time!
Attach notes to charts button
 This button allows the user to easily add notes and charts to a saved location for quick and easy
retrievals.




Gann monthly cycle tool button
Based on the W D Gann master time periods mentioned within his various books and courses
this tool was built to save the user’s time marking each date in every month through out the
course of his/her monthly data. This tool will give the monthly trend changes going back 30, 20,
15, 14, 10, 7, 5, 3 and 1 years in a list format with the simple click of a button. Also be advised
that this tool will only highlight and open when a monthly chart is viewed.
This tool is systematically set up by left clicking your mouse on the farthest set of monthly high
and lows dates going into the future in sequential order. Once this is done all you need to do is
put in the desired year you would like to forecast and the program will do the rest.
The above format is a series of Gann cycle months for the year 2007. If another year would like
to be viewed just put that year in the provided window and the cycle years will automatically
update to fit the new projects format. The entire monthly high and low series only needs to be
clicked on and added once as they could then just be saved for future research

Time Progression tool




The progression tool was developed to find the exact day, weeks or month a user defined cycle
runs out. By placing a user defined cycle length in the interval box, the time frame in the
“progression in” box along with how many periods you wish to view will set the tool’s calendar
scan. Once done choose a user defined date by directly entering it in the “Add” date section or
just by clicking your mouse directly over the desired time period from the chart itself. Then
click…..“Generate”……. The tool will then start the progression in sequential order.

This tool is used to isolate future time periods multiple “time aspects” combine within.




Example: A 7.5 week cycle starting from 3 main time swings and progressed 100 periods




Using this format shows all 7.5 week periods/dates starting from the individually set date series.
 If we wish to scan the month of June 2009 we see starting from the 3/10/ 2009 bottom, June 23
is at 15 weeks. From the 9/19/2008 top we see the date 6/16/2009 is at 37.5 weeks. Both are
very important time periods within the 365.25 solar year.
Date Function
This tool is used to find the difference between 2 dates by adding or subtracting days, weeks,
months or years from a given date. (Note... This function does nothing to the charts themselves.)




This tool is used for researching potential turning dates based on fixed time cycles. If you want
to know the date in 7, 14, 21, or 49 weeks in the future or the anniversary date of any time cycle
starting from a user defined date this tool will give the answer.

Data Download Button
This button calls on the Pivot Point Data Downloader working exclusively with the Dial Data
download system. This feature currently has the ability to retrieve end of day data through a
Dial Data specially built downloader. You must have an internet connection along with a Dial
Data account, user ID and password is needed to connect to this service. This featured account
is not provided by Pivot Point research but must be done directly through the “Track Data
service”. See details under “Pivot Point Data Downloader” heading for signup on the web
page.
Note…Please scroll to the end of this manual for an in-depth description of the downloader




Metastock downloader button
This button will link directly to the metastock downloader once an account has been opened.
To open a metastock account you have been equipped with a direct link to a “Special 30 day
free trial page” located in your Gann Grids Ultra start menu list or go to:
http://www.pvtpointmktres.com/layout/?show=metamain
For more information on Metastock download setup please go to the above link and add
the recommended parameters. This link will send you directly to the information and
instruction page.

                  End of Gann Grids Ultra Basic Version
                       Gann Grids Ultra Advanced Version
                                          Astro tool version

In the early part of 1993 I became interested in becoming a technical research specialist and
sought as much information as I could on the subject. I read as many books, courses and articles
as I could find while at the same time testing dozens of technical forecasting systems. I however
found most if not all fell short of my expectations in actual trading.

After an extensive investigation on the subject the names of W D Gann, R N Elliot, and George
Bayer stood out among the rest as being the best of the best within the fascinating field of
technical analysis and forecasting
.
What caught my attention about these 3 men were each had a larger then life Bio, along with an
astonishing track record of forecasting market turns weeks if not months in advance…
Documented!

However, the fact that Gann and Bayer used a kind of astronomy to generate their forecasts
didn’t sit well with me at first, in fact to me at that time the whole subject was nothing more then
superstition and mumbo jumbo rather then an actual science.

What I did eventually begin to see after 3 intense years of research was Gann spoke freely about
many natural and interesting laws such as the laws of vibrations, the laws of geometrical angles,
range divisions, time cycles, and natural time sequencing followed by an introduction to his
master calculators. Gann also showed a unique understanding of astronomy and astrology as
explained in several examples of planets having a direct relationship to price support and
resistance levels along with other astronomical calculations.

It seemed to me that his understanding of astrology was more of a hard factual science that could
be back tested and confirmed, rather then just chart interpretations of pending doom and gloom.
His type of astrological forecasting was more of an astronomical method with straight forward
rules rather then what would be given from most street corner astrologers both around at that
time or even today …… I was intrigued!

George Bayer spoke of Hebrew letters, graphical ellipses on specially sized chart paper, large
amounts of astronomical observations on what he felt were the keys to unlocking most markets
price and time reversal periods, aspect timing using the planets and hot zodiac degrees locations,
theory behind solar and lunar eclipses in forecasting and also something he called his 5 fold
horoscope. .

He also felt many ancient metaphysical texts where filled with hidden secrets of natural time
cycles as explained in his various books and courses. He also stated this was the origin of his
unique research and astronomical trading tool applications

R N Elliot believed his research on the natural coincidences of a special number cycle was
consistent with not just the fluctuations of our universal markets but also tied directly into nature
herself. He found that the Fibonacci sequence, the golden ratio, and the distinct number pattern
found within his pyramid research were all around him all the time. He found the sacred
sequences and numbers in natural plant growth patterns, sea shell spirals, vortex spirals, planet
rotation cycles, sacred architectural geometry, musical note intonations and galactic progressions

However, at first being some what of a skeptic I tested every tool in exactly the way instructed
to do by each within their various works, and to my surprise I found many of the Astro tool
applications did in fact work…. and at times work well!

I have termed this special astro technical timing, individual and natural energy date research.

I have included within the Gann Grids Ultra Advanced version all of the extremely user friendly
tools explained in the basic version plus several of what I consider the most consistent astro
technical applications found within their unique and fascinating research.

For more advanced astrological/astronomical and forecasting tool application found within the
three master’s works, I highly recommend purchasing most if not all of the Gann, Bayer and
Elliot books and courses located at several web locations.

Also write to Bonnie Lee Hill and ask for a “FREE” copy of her “Tunnel through the air report”.
At bonniehill@verizon.net

Bonnie Lee Hill in my opinion is one of the leading astro technical researchers within this unique
science. I also found her "Tunnel through the Air" material to be a ground breaking study.

Astro Tool 1 – Aspect Fingerprints
The first astro tool takes a series of dates by left clicking your mouse on the daily chart dates
from major and medium high and lows points going back 5, 10, and 20 or more years then breaks
each date down into astro aspects and planetary combinations. This tool then groups them
together for research. The term astro fingerprints is a term formulated through extensive trial and
error research as what was discovered over time was when multiple major and medium turning
dates where astronomically analyzed by dissection, each market seemingly had statistically
predominant and unique set/sets of planetary aspects around them. Just like a unique set of
astrological fingerprints.

Finding the highest number of specific planetary combinations around most tops and bottoms is
the goal of this tool and works in Heliocentric and Geocentric settings

When you select this tool from the Astro Tools menu, a box will pop up. Use this box to set
Date Parameters for Aspect Fingerprints. Click on your chart, on any dates. They will appear
inside the astro tools index box. When you are satisfied with the dates, click the “Run Tool”
button to run Aspect Fingerprints.




“Clear all” will remove all the dates in the box.
“Copy” will copy all the dates in the box to the clipboard.
“Paste” will copy any dates you have on the clipboard to this box, so you can grab dates from
text documents or spreadsheets.

“Run Tool” will execute the tool with the dates you have selected.
Add any other dates by selecting the date and pressing “+”. Choose your settings and select your
transit events. You can click on the planets and aspects in their list boxes by single-clicking, or
select multiple by holding the shift or <Ctrl> keys. Populate the transits box by pressing “+”.
Once all these parameters have been set, press “Transit Count” or “Aspect Count”.
Tool #1 Menu:

You can also double click on any one of the dates in the series and see all the planetary locations
and aspects taking place on that day.
File button -is to save settings to a file, to open a file containing saved settings or to place the
information on the screen in a text file.

The Aspects button is used to modify your set of aspects by adding or deleting user set aspects.

The Copy button copies the list of transits generated to the clipboard.

The Excel button copies the list of transits generated to a spreadsheet.

Example
You can see on the right a series of combinations along with the number of times it was present
around each date …in this case 14 dates were selected with a 1 degree orb and in a geocentric
format. You can also by clicking the “transit count” button exactly the type of aspect each
combination is making.

Astro tool #2_Aspect highlight
Once a series of high probability aspects/combinations are found using tool # 1’s functions then
tool # 2 takes over. What this tool does is allow the user to enter the exact planetary combination
found to be consistent within tool # 1 research and search the heavens through a users set time
period to find the dates the aspects will again occur.
Once the dates are located within tool # 2’s functions they can then be highlighted to the actual
daily charts.
Select your settings and transit events (as in Tool #1). Press “+” to add transit events to the
“Transits” list box. Press “List Transits” to populate the data grid. You may now transfer these
dates and plot them on to your Gann Grids Ultra chart by clicking and dragging on the data grid.
When you have finished highlighting the selected dates then right-click and a pop up menu will
appear with two options. The first time you do this “Clear Clipboard”, then “Add to Clipboard”.
You can keep adding different selections of dates to the clipboard. Once you are done, you can
plot them on your grid. Closing the tool is not necessary. Just remember to clear the
clipboard for each set of dates you wish to highlight, or they will be left on the clipboard and
repeat.
Tool 2 Menu:
 The File button saves settings to a file, opens a file containing saved settings, or to place the
information on the screen in text format.
 The Aspects button is used to modify your set of aspects by adding or deleting user defined
sets.
 The Excel button copies the list of transits generated to a spreadsheet.

Example
Say the aspects of mars /Saturn was found to be persistent in many of the high and low dates in
tool #1, In tool # 2 you can scan a user set time frame looking for the dates in the future that the
special planetary combinations are due. Each date can then be highlighted on the daily chart and
in the color of your choice.

This example shows the highlighted dates of the Mars/Sat aspects from 1/01/07-10/01/07
Astro Tool 3 – Planet Ephemeris
With the ephemeris tool you can look for the dates of planetary retrograde periods, direct
periods, eclipse hot degrees locations, zero north declination, zero south declination, max north
and max south declination, planet ingressions into new signs, George Bayer’s mirror point
locations and much more.

Within the new 3.0 version several new selections have been added, Latitude and Speed

You can also scroll through multiple months to find the date’s planets cross over the “Hot
Zodiac degrees” found with the ‘Zodiac Hot Spot Locater Tool” explained later.

Tool 3 lists ephemeris data by user defined dates. Enter your settings, press “Generate” to
populate the data grid. This tool does not interact with the Gann Grids Ultra charts themselves
.
The Excel button copies all your data to an Excel spreadsheet, which will open immediately.
Note… Please be patient and wait for the spreadsheet to completely load before attempting to
scroll, or modify because this may “lock” your screen causing it to be unresponsive. You will
know when loading is complete after the column headings and dates turn pale yellow and the
cursor changes to your default pointer.

 This tool lists Geocentric, Heliocentric, right ascension and declination ephemeris going back
200 years in the past and up too 50 years into the future.

Geocentric …areas in gray are retrograde dates and areas in red are planetary ingresses
Heliocentric.




Right Ascension in degrees
Right Ascension in hours and minutes
Declination




LATITUDE
SPEED




This tool also has an added feature in the 3.0 version! You can now view the Declination
and Latitude of each planet one at a time or all at once in a graphical format. This format
can be accessed from the special drop down box located on the main screen’s tool bar.
What this tool does is allow the user to view several planets declination or latitude as an overlay
used for locating crossovers dates
For Declination




After clicking on the Declination function the above screen will appear. Next click on the Run
ephemeris button to open up the ephemeris and set to Declination then set time period you wish
to view. Once this is done select the planet by left clicking on the planets name column and the
whole column will be highlighted all at once. Then click the “File” button and “Create Planet
Log file” link. This will send the needed data to the tool.




After this go back to the Declination screen and click on the “Edit” button, then “Read new
waves”

Important- only 1 planet can be sent to the log file at a time!
In this case Venus (pink) and Mars (Red) were selected from Nov. 18 2006 – Dec. 18 2007




To view any date on this chart just “left” click on the desired point and the date will appear at the
bottom left of this chart.


The Latitude chart
The Latitude chart is set up in exactly the same way as the Declination chart with 1 exception.
When you pull up the ephemeris tool just click on the “Latitude setting” instead of Declination
Moon, Venus Latitude




Astro Tool 4 – Planet Transit
This planet transit tool takes the theories of both Gann and Bayer to a whole new level!
This tool will take the zodiac location of any planet from any date and finds a user defined aspect
degree within a user set time period.

This tool is used to find the exact dates each planet makes aspects to itself from a unique starting
location. Gann and Bayer found this concept to be useful as they found many trend change dates
could be calculated into the future with it.

Each realized when dates from multiple tops and bottoms where found clustering (from this
unique single planet research) around single dates in the future a more accurate and higher
probability forecast could be made.

The user also controls the aspect degree to be used as well as the ephemeris type, Heliocentric or
Geocentric. The dates found could then be highlighted onto the daily charts if desired.

Enter your settings, press “Generate” to populate the data grid. You may now transfer these
dates and plot them on to your Gann Grids Ultra chart by clicking and dragging on the data grid.
When you have highlighted the selection, press “Copy” on the menu bar. Once you are done, you
can plot the dates on your grid.
Tool 4 Menu: “Colors” – allows the user to pre-select the colors of your planets.




This example shows the “Sun” starting on 3/21/2006 -4/21/2007 and finding the dates it reaches
all 30 degree aspects to itself for 1 year.
The Sun’s 30 degree aspects from itself
Astro Tool 5 – Planet Transit
This tool takes any zodiac location, say the location of an eclipse, retro or direct degree, special
zodiac degrees of asteroids, fixed stars, George Bayer’s mirror points and others and find the
dates each planet makes a user defined aspect to it in a user set time period.

This mundane energy degree research is a fascinating study in itself and highlights many major
and minor trend change periods in both individual and the overall markets.

This example shows the 3/29/06 total solar eclipse degree of 8 Aries 35 min. and finding the
dates each planet makes all 15 degree aspects to it from 1/01/06-5/30/07.

Example 1a
Example 1b




Example 1c
Mars highlighted in red




Enter your settings, press “Generate” to populate the data grid. You may now transfer these
dates and plot them on to your Gann Grids Ultra chart by clicking and dragging on the data grid.
When you have highlighted the selection, press “Copy” on the menu bar.

Once you are done, you can plot the dates on your grid. Closing the tool is not necessary.
“Colors” – pre-select the colors of your planets.




“Excel” – copies all your data to an Excel spreadsheet, which will open immediately. Please
wait for the spreadsheet to completely load before attempting to scroll, or modify because this
may “lock” your screen causing it to be unresponsive. You will know when loading is complete
after the column headings and dates turn pale yellow and the cursor changes to your default
pointer. You must have Microsoft Excel installed on your computer to use this function.
Astro Tool 6 – Zodiac Hot Spots
This tool also takes the dates of all user selected highs and lows directly from the daily charts by
left clicking on them. Then it takes the dates and places each planet from each individual date on
a special zodiac overview type window and gives a total /tally of the hottest degrees.

This tool was developed to find special zodiac hot spots locations of individual markets. In the
previously discussed “astro fingerprint tool” we found many markets have special planetary
combinations around each important turning date .What this tool does is it allows us to see at a
glance if any single planet or multiple planets have special hot zodiac degrees which may be
triggering reversals.

But what exactly is a hot degree?
A hot degree is a specific zodiac location that would show a high probability of market reversals
when a specific planet or multiple planets crossed over that location.

George Bayer showed within his unique astro research that some markets tend to have special
zodiac locations or “Zodiac Hot spots” which tend to trigger reversals in both long and short
term trends. What he explained within in his various books and courses was that when a specific
planet or multiple planets would cross over this special zodiac degree’s the markets direction
would turn.

When you select this tool from the Astro Tools menu, a box will pop up. Use this box to set
Date Parameters for Zodiac Hot Spots. Click on your chart, at any dates that you wish. They
will appear inside the box. When you are satisfied with the dates, click the “Run Tool” button to
run tool 6 with the dates you want.
“Clear all” will remove all the dates in the box.
“Copy” will copy all the dates in the box to the clipboard.
“Paste” will copy any dates you have on the clipboard to this box, so you can grab dates from
text documents or spreadsheets.

“Run Tool” will execute the tool with the dates you have selected.
Add any other dates by selecting the date and pressing “+”. Choose your settings. Press
“Generate” to populate the grid.
Tool #6 Menu:
“Tally” – will total the columns based on your settings. Check the planets you wish to include.
Press “OK” when you are done, or “Cancel” to restore previous values.
LONGITUDE




NEW IN VERSION 3.0

With this new Zodiac hot spot adaptation you can now tell exactly where every planet was in
declination, latitude, and RA as well as longitude in spread sheet order.
DECLINATION




RA
LATITUDE




DECLINATION GRID
RA. GRID




SPEED
The “Excel” button – copies all your data to an Excel spreadsheet, which will open immediately.
Please wait for the spreadsheet to completely load before attempting to scroll, or modify because
this may “lock” your screen causing it to be unresponsive. You will know when loading is
complete after the column headings turn pale yellow and the cursor changes to your default
pointer.

Astro Tool 7– Planet / Prices
This next tool will plot the zodiac location of any planet and convert it into a price then overlay it
over a daily price bar chart.

Gann had mentioned in one of his courses that the zodiac location of a specific planets or a
combination of several special planets would show superior support and resistance levels on the
markets he was following, when converted into a specific price.

Gann however, was very vague about explaining the exact method used in converting his zodiac
degree locations into an exact price amount. After much trial and error research this tool was
constructed with the idea that when looking at his numerical squares of 9, 7, 12 and others and
starting the 1 degree Aries at $1and 2 degrees Aries at $2 ext…..we could follow through the
whole zodiac location the same way. This concept also states that if you are at lets say 2 degrees
Aries all prices in that row 2, 11, 20, 29, 38, 47, 56, 65, 74 will reflect a price/zodiac
relationship…in other words each number/price in that line will be considered to be an active or
hot price.

These prices will be viewed on screen as bands or waves of colors. This tool is set up in a way
which allows the user to add as many lines above or bellow the actual zodiac location he/she
wants. The bellow prices are in red, the above are in blue, and the actual zodiac location
translated into a full price are in gray….

Example square of 9 grid
9, 18, 27, 36, 46, 54, 63, 72, 81
8, 17, 26, 35, 44, 53, 62, 71, 80
7, 16, 25, 34, 43, 52, 61, 70, 79
6, 15, 24, 33, 42, 51, 60, 69, 78
5, 14, 23, 32, 41, 50, 59, 68, 77
4, 13, 22, 31, 40, 49, 58, 67, 76
3, 12, 21, 30, 39, 48, 57, 66, 75
2, 11, 20, 29, 38, 47, 56, 65, 74
1, 10, 19, 28, 37, 46, 55, 64, 73

This tool also allows the user to choose any square he wants.
Enter your settings, press “Generate” to populate the data grid.
Please note the following:
   • Wait until “Stop” changes to “Generate” before attempting to plot the waves on your
       Gann Grids Ultra chart.
   • If the data is not completely generated, you will not get the proper lines / waves on your
       chart.
   • Only prices above $0 will appear on the grid. As pictured above, the cells that appear
       blank were either 0 or below. You can scroll to your right or down to find the populated
       cells.
   • The more lines “above” and “below”, the longer they will take to generate and plot.
   • The larger the date range, the longer the lines / waves will take to generate and plot.
   • If you choose to combine planets, make sure “Mean of Prices” option is selected. You
       will be prompted to assign a color for the waves, once the data has been generated.
   • Closing the tool is not necessary for plotting multiple series of waves.

Tool # 7 Menu:
“Edit” -> “Color Settings”: Color settings for lines /waves.
Press “>>” for planet combinations.




“Edit” -> “Log File Settings” to change the file name and path. This log file contains the
coordinates of the lines / waves and color. Please leave this as default unless absolutely
necessary to change. Changing the location of this file while Gann Grids Ultra is running
may cause your lines / waves to be improperly plotted or lose your coordinates.
Planet / Prices Settings
Maintain the lines / waves from Astro Tool 7 Planet / Prices.




Once you have plotted the coordinates from Tool 7, you can maintain the set of lines. The above
screen shows a daily chart display Mercury waves.
Color – to change the color of a set of waves, select the set from the list box by single clicking.
Click on the color box and select a color from the color dialog box. Then press “Change Waves
in Series to this color”. This will apply the new color, redraws the screen.
“Draw Waves” – redraws the screen with current waves.
“Clear Waves” – erases waves off the screen, but does not permanently delete them.
“Remove all” – permanently removes all waves and redraws the screen. If you want to remove
only one series, double click on the series in the list box.
“Read New Waves” – will read the log file generated by Tool 7 and plot them.
Price Scale setting – plots the waves using the current price scale or 1.00. For example if the
price scale is 0.50 (50 cents) the waves will be twice as far apart as they would be at 1.00.
“Cancel” - will close this box.
Example using square of 1.5 with chart set at .25. Red lines are Saturn and blue is Jupiter




DEGREE OF SEPARATION
This new tool will take the exact degree of separation for a chosen set of planets on a chosen list
of dates. What this tool is for is similar to the astro fingerprint tool except instead of searching
for a the average aspects in multiples of 3.75, 7.5, 15 and the rest , this tool will tell you exactly
what degree of separation was present on each date for the set planets along with its speed
variation.
Example:
Say you want to know exactly what unique aspect or speed variation are present for any
planetary combination from the tops and bottom dates you have selected, all that is needed is
choose what combination you want from the drop down box and click “FIND SEPARATION”

Sun /Mars,




This tool is used to find non-standard aspects spoken of by George Bayer in several of his books
and courses. Bayer felt that though most astrologers use the standard sets of aspects he felt many
markets could also have very unique and special degree of separation between a specific set of
planets. The same can be said for their unique speed differential. If after testing several sets of
planets you discover a special degree of separation controlling a markets trend change periods
(say 131 degree’s) you can then use tool # 2 (Aspect Highlights) to find the dates in the future
when these specialized aspects are due.

PLANET SPEED DIFFFERENTIAL TOOL
After locating a special speed differential from the “Degree of separation tool” this tool will then
find that unique degree of separation into the future. Just set the desired period to search in the
formatted boxes, add the specific planetary combination and set the desired speed differential in
the set window and click “FIND DATES”
Dates of “SUN/MARS” with speed differential of 00.30
NEW!! Astro Tool 10 - PLANETARY SPEED LINES
The Planetary Speed Lines Tool takes the speed of any planet singularly or combined and places
it in a user-defined date and price location. If more than one planet is selected it will take the
mean motion of each and draw its motion at a user defined starting point on screen with the
simple click of a button. This tool is for researching tops and bottoms in relation to the motion
and daily speed of the heavenly bodies.

To run planetary speed lines select Tool 10 from the Astro Tools Menu on Gann Grids Ultra.
Select a start date, the number of boxes you want to extend on the chart and one or more planets.
If you decide to combine planets, you must take the mean motion and check the Mean of Prices
option. Select the Centric Type. Press the Generate Button. Wait until the Generate button is
enabled, and switch windows back to the Gann Grids chart.




Select the Waves button from the Gann Grids toolbar. The fourth item on the menu is “Planetary Speed
Lines”. If the log file is in the default location, it will automatically be read and appear on the list box. If
not, press “New Line” from the menu. In order to plot the new wave, follow these steps:
    1. Highlight the line inside the list box.
    2. Click on the chart at the location where you want the wave to appear, adjust the color and decide
         whether or not to mirror the image.
    3. When you are satisfied with the location, click “Lock in Position”.
    4. Click “Draw” or “Go To Page” on the Gann Grids Control Box (located on the bottom of the
         screen).

    5. To flip (mirror) the wave, highlight the line inside the list box, choose “Yes” option in “Mirror
       Current Image?”, then Click “Draw” or “Go To Page” on the Gann Grids Control Box (located on
       the bottom of the screen). This will flip whatever the current image is, not necessarily the
       original line.
Hi-Lite Dates Color Settings
This button Sets the color of date lines from Tool # 2 (Aspect Highlights or external sources).
Important-Please set these colors before highlighting the dates. Click on the colored box and
select a color from the color dialog box. Press “OK” and the color will appear next to the source.
Press “Close” when you are finished.
Planet Color Settings
Sets the color of date lines from the Astro Tools 4 and 5, categorized by planet Please set these
colors before highlighting the dates. Click on the colored box and select a color from the color
dialog box. Press “OK” and the color will appear next to the source. Press “Close” when you
are finished.
System Requirements and Installation Instructions
Requirements for 4.0,5.0:
Windows 2000, Windows XP (recommended with SP2), NEW!! Windows VISTA
Minimum 512 MB memory
20MB Free Disk Space
An Internet connection - For installation and registration

Run the setup program from CD:
If your autorun option is OFF:
Click “Start” menu, “Run”
Browse the CD for:
E:\GannGridsUltra\GGUSETUP.exe (where E:\ is your CD drive)

Otherwise AUTORUN will install Gann Grids Ultra as soon as your CD loads.
Please WAIT for this feature to load, as it may take up to 90 seconds!
Once you have read the Welcome screen, and have closed all other applications, you
can install Gann Grids Ultra.
The setup copies all the required files to your PC.
The setup will create a program group, but not desktop icons.

Recommendations:
   • Uninstall older versions of GGU before installing a new version.
   • If the installation prompts you for a file conflict, or out-dated file we
     recommend that you KEEP your old version.
   • We recommend adjusting your monitor resolution to 1024 x 768 pixels. At a
     lower resolution, some chart functions may not be viewable.
   • IMPORTANT! Take down any and all FIREWALLS before using Gann Grids
     Ultra for the first time. Especially in Windows VISTA, FIREWALLS will
     prohibit GGU from registering your key. Once the registration process is
     complete, protect your computer by enabling your Firewalls again.
   • To install GGU you must have ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS. Please check
     your “User Settings” in the “Control Panel” to check.

Check our website www.pvtpointmktres.com for FAQs on installation issues.
Pivot point Data Downloader advanced overview

Our Data Downloader currently has the internal ability to retrieve pricing data directly
from the Dial Data service, and places it into a fixed format for Gann Grids Ultra
programs functions.




Requirements:
   1. Internet Connection
   2. Subscription to Dial Data – with a User ID and Password.

Before you begin a download:
       1. Establish your internet connection, temporarily disable ALL FIREWALLS.
       2. Open Pivot Point Data Downloader from your Start Menu or from Gann
          Grids Ultra toolbar.
       3. Answer “Yes” if you have established your connection.
       4. To set up your User ID and Password from Dial Data – click on “Settings”,
          then “Host Information” from the main screen menu. If you attempt to
          collect data without a valid ID, your transmission will hang. In this case,
          please select the “Interrupt” button to stop your PC from trying to transmit.
5. Enter your user information. The host website is currently
   “dd.trackdata.com”. If this should ever change, this field can be modified.
   The Port is usually “23”, however if this port is not available on your
   computer, you may adjust this. If your Downloader cannot connect, try a
   different Port. Once you select “OK” your settings will be saved for future
   use.
6. To add or remove stocks, click “Add Stocks” button
7. You have been provided with a sample symbol table from “DialData”,
   which should be updated periodically. You can select from the available
   securities or add symbols to your list by typing them in the box provided
   and pressing “+”. All the symbols you add will appear in the “Selected
   Symbols to Download” list box. Click on a symbol and press “-“to
   remove. To change the list of available securities, you can type in the
   name of a new file, browse for a file with “…” browse button, or “Edit
   Settings”.
8. “Edit Settings” will take you to a new screen where you can supply the file
   location and format as follows:




9. Determine what you want to download and where you want to put the data
   by selecting “Settings”, and “Download Options” from the main screen:
    Or Right-Click on a symbol on the main screen to edit options:

10. “Download Type” is either “Daily Data” or “Historical”. Daily will
    download the prices of all the available Dial Data securities for ONE day –
    latest closing date. Historical data is a history of prices for each security
    you have selected. Select a frequency.
11. “Date Range” is the time period you desire prices for each security. If the
    prices do not exist for that time, only the prices available will be retrieved.
12. You have been provided with a sample symbol table.
       You can select from the available securities or add symbols to your list
       by typing them in the box provided and pressing “+”. All the symbols
       you add will appear in the “Selected Symbols to Download” list box.
       Click on a symbol and press “-“to remove. To change the list of
       available securities, you can type in the name of a new file, browse for
       a file with “…” browse button, or     “Edit Settings”.

13. “Edit Settings” will take you to a new screen where you can supply the file
    location and format as follows:




14. Determine what you want to download and where you want to put the data
    by selecting “Settings”, and “Download Options” from the main screen:
    Or Right-Click on a symbol on the main screen to edit options:




15. “Download Type” is either “Daily Data” or “Historical”. Daily will
    download the prices of all the available Dial Data securities for ONE day –
    latest closing date. Historical data is a history of prices for each security
    you have selected. Select a frequency.

16. “Date Range” is the time period you desire prices for each security. If the
    prices do not exist for that time, only the prices available will be retrieved.

17. Select a File Path to determine where your data will be placed. The
    individual files will be named with the symbol and frequency. For
    example, the IBM download will be IBMD for daily data.
Begin Downloading:

   1. “Connect to Host” – Press this button to connect to Dial Data.
   2. Immediately after Yellow connection light comes on, press “Begin
      Download”
   3. Some incoming data will appear in Incoming Data window. Please
      wait for a response before pressing any buttons.
   4. When data is downloaded, you will be prompted. You may then exit
      the program.
Trouble Shooting
   •   Cannot Connect – make sure you have an established connection
       BEFORE running this application. Exit the program, connect to the
       internet, and rerun the program. If this does not work, try changing the
       Port in Settings, “Host Settings”. The port is not a local port, it is an
       internet port. Our default is port is 23. Again, after you change your
       setting, exit the application and rerun.
   •   Cannot Connect – make sure a Fire Wall such as AOL Security is not
       blocking the connection to Dial Data.
   •   Connection Timed-Out – This may happen on a slow dial-up connection.
       If there are long gaps between requests, Dial Data will close the
       connection. If you get this message with a high-speed connection, select
       Begin Download immediately after Connect to Host.
   •   Connection Timed-Out – If you have a Fire Wall such as AOL Security, it
       may block Pivot Point Data Downloader from connecting to Dial Data.
       When a message pops-up to inform you of the block, unblock to enable the
       connection. You may have to rerun the program.
   •   Connection Timed-Out during download – Too much data to download
       in one session. Dial Data limits the amount of data it can send during one
       session. Exit the application, decrease the number of securities by un-
       clicking some on the list, connect to host, begin download. It is best to run
       the program once for every session.
   •   Cannot find symbol file – Sample file has been removed from location,
       and a new file has not been identified. The program will run without this
       file. If you wish to establish a symbol file, you can download one for free
       from the Dial Data website. Change the settings to reflect the file path and
       format of your new symbol file.
   •   Unsuccessful Download – check your User ID and password.
   •   Unsuccessful Download – make sure the symbols you have entered are
       valid. If Dial Data does not recognize the symbol, it may result in errors.
       If there are several securities to download, normally Dial Data will bypass
       the illegal ones and send data for the others. If Dial Data encounters too
       many errors, transmission will cease.
   •   Unsuccessful Download – make sure you have ample space on your hard
       drive to place the data. If you are a user that does not have the rights to
       create files and folders on the assigned drive, reassign the download path
       via “Settings”, “Download Information”, or have your rights increased.
       The data is downloaded to a temporary file, and then split up into
       individual files, one per security.

I have found Dial Data’s historical data to go back on most stocks and indexes up
to 30 plus years!

With the Reuters data feed running a very close second!

Pivot Point Research is working hand in hand with the Reuters data service by
offering our users a 30 day free trial to its data feed service.
    You can sign up for this service at www.pvtpointmktres.com

    However, the choice of data providers is ultimately up to the user. The Gann Grids
    ultra program can and will read almost all ASCII data files from most sources.
    You can also write your own ASCII files free of charge from the ASCII file
    writer located at www.pvtpointmktres.com. Write yearly, Bi weekly (used for stop
    loss order placement), Bi yearly, or any other file you may want.

    The following is a short list of stocks that have a 30 year or more history.

       Stock               stating date of data

        GE                    1-2-1962

        GM                    1-2-1962

        IBM                   1-2-1962

         EK                   1-2-1962

         AA                   1-2-1962

         CAT                   1-2-1962

         DD                    1-2-1962

         KO                    1-2-1962

         MMM                   1-2-1970

         WMT                    8-25-1972

         XRX                   1-3-1977

         PEP                   1-3-1977

          KR                    1-3-1977




Though the Gann Grids Ultra program was custom built to be a potentially powerful forecasting tool, its
applications are not guaranteed in any way nor are they exact. Its users must understand that market forecasting
and trading is a life long study and is not an exact science. Also Pivot Point Research will not be held responsible
for monetary losses do to the programs use or the users trading decisions. Long term success in any business
demands an understanding that error and uncertainty are inherent parts within them all…
Thank you
Robert Giordano
