HOW TO TRADE
After you hevethoroughly mastered #11 of the lessons, be sure you are right
before you make a trade. Never guess. Trade on scientific indicetions only.

WHAT YOU MUST KNOW BEFORE YOU START TRADING:

You must know exactly how to apply all the rules, how to draw the geometrical
angles or moving-arérage iines from tops and bottoms; how to squaro Time with
Prices how to brine + te important 45° aneles or lines, which represant 9 cov—
ing average. You must know where to place @ ston loss orcer and must look ur
what cycie the year is an, that is, determine iruw the Master Forecasting Unert
whether it is @ bull or bear yeor, whether vino wasn trend should be up or dom.

Before you make a trade, either buying or selling, consider the position of
each individual stock on the monthly chart; next consider the weekly chert and
thon the daily chart, If they sll] confirm en uptrend, it is a cinch to buy, pro-
vided you have located the point at which to place a stop loss order. On tho
other hend, if the cycle shows that it is a bear year and the monthly, weekly and
daily charts show downtrend, then it is the time to go short, but egein you must
look for the most important point—where to place the stop loss order so that it
will not be more than 3 points away and closer if possible.

WHAT TO LOOK UP BEFORE YOU MAKE A TRADE:

Following are the most important points that you must consider before buying,
or selling a stock:

1, Annual Forecast dotermines year of Time Cyclo, whether bull or boar yoar, and
main trend of the general murkot, up or duwn,

2. Cycle of individual stock, whether up or down year.
3. Monthly position on angles from.tops and bottoms und time periods,

4, Weekly position on. time periods from tops and bottoms and on angles from tops
and bottoms, See if it is squaring out Time from top or bottom.

5. Daily position on amgles from important tops and bottoms and time periods,

See whether a stock 4s mear square of recent top or bottom.

6. Resistance Levels on price, See whether the stock ig near any half-way point:
or other points of support or resistance.

1, Look to see if stock has held for several days, weeks or months around samo
lovel and whother it is about ready to cross or break important anglos from
tops or bottems,.

8. Loek up volute of sales, See whether ea stock has incroased or docroased
volume over past few days or weoks.

9, Look wp space or price movement, up or down, for past movements. Find out

what was the greatest advance or doclino for past few woeks or months. For

@enple: If @ stock has reacted 5 points soveral timos end at tho timo you

F-18

look it up, you find it is 3 points dowm from tho last top ond the trend is up
on monthly, weckly and daily with the price near e support anglo, you could
buy with a stop loss order 2 to 3 points away; then if tho stock broke back
ovor 5 points, the previous reaction limit, it would show a chango in trend
and you should bo out of it.

10. Remembor, the most important factor to dopend on to dotermine tho position
of a stock is Geomotrienl Angles, Boe suro tu bring up tho wigles from "0"
from recent tops and bottoms.

ll. Never overlook the fact that you must have a definite indication before mak—
ing a trade.

12, Most important of all—Always locate the point et which to place a stop loss
order to limit risk.

PRACTICE TRADING ON PAPER:

After you feel sure that you have mastered all the rules and know exactly
how to determine the trend of a stock and the plece to begin trading, then to
make yourself doubly sure end establish confidence, practice trading on paper
until you thoroughly understand how to use the rules and when to use them, If
you make mistakes trading on paper, then you would make mistakes at that timo
in actual trading and you aro not ready to begin trading. When you feel that
you are competent to start trading, apply all of the rules and trade only on
definite indications. If you are not sure of the trend or the buying and sell-
ang price end not sure where to plece a stop loss order, then wait util you got
a definite indication. You can always make money by waiting for opportunities,
There ts no use getting in partly on guesswork and losing.

WHEN TO CLOSE A TRADE:

After you start actual trading, when you make a trade, dontt close it or
take profits until you have a definite indication according to the rules that it
is time to sell out or buy in or to move up the stop loss order end wait until
it is caught. The way to make a success is to follow the trend always and not
get out or close ea trade until the trend changes.

WHEN TO WAIT AND NOT TRADE:

It is just os imrortant to know when not to enter the market as it is to
know wnen to enter it. The time not to make a trade is when you find a stuck
hes been holding in a narrow trading range for somn time, say, & S-point or a
3~point range, but has not broken under bottoms previously made or crossed tons
nreviously mede. A stock may stay for warks or months or even years in a treding
range and will not indicate any big move or change in trend until it crosses a
previous top or breuks a previous bottom, If a stock is inactive in this positie
it is no time to stuart trading in it.

Another time not to make a trade is when a stock has narrowed dow betwoen
two important engles—has not broken under one or crossed the other. Wait until
it gets out in the clear and fives a definite indication tefore you trade.

After n prolonged decline stocks ne*rly always narrow dow and hold in a
trading range for seme time, Thon you should wait until the engles from the
bottom aro broken or the angles from the top aro crossed and the stock broaks ov-