Chapter 1
Introduction
In this first lesson you should understand W.D. Gann, the man. Who the man
was, what he did, and how he did it. I have included below two articles: The
Remarkable W.D. Gann written by John J. Gann, Jr., who was W.D. Gann's
grandson and another article W.D. Gann A Legend written by Les Clemens. Both
articles are excellent.

Your assignment is to read these two articles. It is the goal of this course to make
each of you into a master trader like Gann. To do this we must build upon a
strong base. This lesson is part of that strong base, which is an understanding of
W.D. Gann.

I know that many of you have been trading and studying Gann techniques for 10
to 20 years. If any of you have anything you want to ask or comment about
chapter 1, please e-mail us at chapter1@tradersworld.com

This is a 4 month class. We will go over a new chapter every week. There are 21
chapters. There will also be a surprise quiz every so often. There will also be a
final test at the end of the course and you will receive a certificate that proves
you successfully completed this important trading course.

We hope at the end of the class that everyone has learned enough to trade the
Gann Masters way.

Welcome to the class.

Let's work hard to become successful traders.

Larry Jacobs

The Remarkable W.D. Gann
by John L. Gann, Jr.


If you had been a businessman traveling across Texas in 1891, you might have
bought a newspaper and a couple of cigars from a tall, lanky 13-year-old selling
them on your train. And as you talked with your fellow travelers about
investments, you might have noticed the youth eavesdropping intently on your
conversation.

If you had asked him, the boy might have told you his name was Willy and, yes,
he was interested in commodities. His dad was a farmer in Angelina County, and
just about everyone he knew was as well. They were all concerned about the
prices their cotton would bring. And had you inquired whether young Willy also
wanted to till the East Texas soil when he got older, he might have said no, he
didn't think so: he wanted to be a businessman.

“Well, good luck, young Willy,” you might have said. “Maybe you'll have your own
business some day, maybe you'll even be famous. Who knows? No one can
predict the future.”

The young eavesdropper going up and down the aisles of that train was William
Delbert Gann. Was it really true, he might have wondered, that no one can
predict the future?

W.D Gann was born on a farm some seven miles outside of Lufkin, Texas, on
June 6, 1878.

He was the firstborn of 11 children two girls and eight boys of Sam Houston
Gann and Susan R. Gann. The Ganns lived in a too small house with no indoor
plumbing and with not much of anything else. They were poor, and young Willy
walked the seven miles into Lufkin for three years to go to school.

But the work he could do on the farm was more important to the family, so W.D.
never graduated from grammar school or attended high school. As the eldest
boy, he had a special responsibility, and those years working on the farm may
have been the beginning of his lifelong dedication to hard work. His religious
upbringing as a Baptist may also have had something to do with it, for his faith
stayed with him throughout his life as well.

A few years later W.D. worked in a brokerage in Texarkana and attended
business school at night. He married Rena May Smith, and two daughters, Macie
and Nora, were born in the first few years of the new twentieth century. W.D.
made the fateful move to New York City in 1903 at the age of 25.

Working most likely at a major Wall Street brokerage, W.D. made other changes
in his life as well. He divorced his Texas bride and in 1908 at the age of 30
married a 19-year-old colleen named Sarah Hannify. W.D. and Sadie had two
children--Velma, born in 1909 and W.D.'s only son, John, who arrived six years
later. In addition, Macie and Nora came to live with their father and were raised in
New York by their Irish stepmother.

During the First World War the family moved from Manhattan to Brooklyn first to
Bay Ridge, then to Flatbush. W.D. reportedly predicted the November 9, 1918,
abdication of the Kaiser and the end of the war. But it was after the armistice that
the fortunes of the Ganns of Brooklyn took their most dramatic turn. The W.D.
that traders know today emerged in the Roaring Twenties.

In 1919 at the age of 41, W.D. Gann quit his job and went out on his own. He
spent the rest of his life building his own business.

He began publishing a daily market letter, the Supply and Demand Letter. The
letter covered both stocks and commodities and provided its readers with annual
forecasts. Forecasting was an activity with which W.D. had become fascinated.

The young business prospered, and three years later W.D. Gann became a
homeowner, buying a small house on Fenimore Street in his adopted home of
Brooklyn. The market letter led to more ambitious publishing. In 1924 W.D.'s first
book, Truth of the Stock Tape, was published.

A pioneering work on chart reading, it is still regarded by some as the best book
ever written on the subject. An individualist and ambitious hard worker, W.D. self-
published Truth through his new Financial Guardian Publishing Company. He
personally wrote his own ads to market it and negotiated with bookstores to carry
it.

Truth as praised by The Wall Street Journal and sold well for years. Some
consider it the best of his many books. For a first effort it was a significant
accomplishment.

His market forecasts during the twenties were reportedly 85 percent accurate.
But W.D. didn't confine his prognostications to prices. It was widely reported he
predicted the elections of Wilson and Harding and, indeed, of every president
since 1904.

At age 49, W.D. Gann wrote what is perhaps his most unusual book, the 1927
Tunnel Through the Air. It is a prophetic work of fiction, not a genre every Wall
Street analyst dabbles in. But W.D. Gann was one of a kind. The book is perhaps
best known for having predicted that attack on the United States by Japan and
an air war between the two powers. Through Tunnel may have had little to offer
investors, it was well-publicized and enhanced its author's growing reputation.
The market in the Twenties seemed to be defying the law of gravity, but W.D.
Gann didn't think it could last forever. In his forecast for 1929, he predicted the
market would hit new highs until early April, then experience a sharp break, then
resume with new highs until September 3. Then it would top and afterward would
come the biggest crash in its history. We all know what happened.

W.D. prospered during the Depression, which he predicted would end in 1932.
He acquired seats on various commodities exchanges, traded for his own
account, wrote Wall Street Stock Selector in 1930 and New Stock Trend Detector
in 1936.

He continued making remarkably accurate forecasts as well as some less
successful ones like the electoral defeat of FDR. He developed a new interest in
investing in Florida real estate. He became a small-scale home-builder in Miami
as well as the owner of a block of stores on the Tamiami Trail.

He also became airborne. He bought a plane in 1932 so he could fly over crop
areas making observations to use in his forecasts. He hired Elinor Smith, a noted
21-year-old aviator, to fly him around. The novelty of his high-flying research--
W.D. was the first to study markets in this way--helped keep him in the spotlight.

W.D.'s son John also went into the securities business in 1936 at the age of 21.
A year later he went to work for his dad until in 1941 his Uncle Sam announced
he had plans for the young man in Europe.

Back in Brooklyn, Sadie had health problems for some time and died at age 53 in
1942. Then after 20 years on Fenimore Street, an aging W.D. Gann moved to
Miami for reasons both of health and personal preference. His How to make
Profits in Commodities came out the same year.

He kept his business in New York, relying on his long-time personal secretary. In
Miami he continued studying the market, trading, real estate investing, and
instructing students. The next year at the age of 65, when most are thinking
retirement, W.D. decided he'd get married and did, to a much younger woman.

Son John worked on W.D.'s business in New York briefly after the war, then left
to pursue his own interests in the Industry. The two differed in their approach to
the market. John L. Gann pursued a successful lifetime career with Wall Street's
major brokerage housed until his passing in 1984.

The post-war years saw W.D. start taking it easier. He published 45 Years in
Wall Street in 1949. He sold his business to Joseph Lederer, a fellow student of
the market. Around the same time he also separately sold the rights to all his
books to Edward Lambert. He continued, however, to study, teach, and trade. He
was made an honorary member of the International Mark Twain Society in 1950.

In 1954 he suffered a heart attack. A year later advanced stomach cancer was
discovered. The doctors operated, but W.D. failed to recover. He died in June,
1955, at the age of 77.

He was buried with his second wife in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn at a
location that looks toward Wall Street. It was a fitting location since he had
studied the Street all his adult life.

In 1995, 40 years after his passing, William D. Gann is still talked about, written
about, and studied avidly. His books are back in print and are sold by Trader's
World and Lambert-Gann Publishing Company. It's an extraordinary testimonial
to his work and one that even W.D. couldn't have predicted. Or could he? What
lessons might there be in this remarkable man's life?

First is an affirmation of the American Dream. William Delbert Gann of Lufkin,
Texas, started with nothing. He and his family had no money, no education, and
no prospects. But less than 40 years after overhearing businessmen talk on
railroad cars in Texas, W.D. Gann was known around the world.

Second, hard work pays. W.D. rose early, worked late, and approached his
business with great energy. Virtually all his education was self-administered. This
teacher, writer, and prescient forecaster had a third-grade formal education. But
he never stopped reading.

Third, unconventional thinking may have its merits. W.D. was intellectually
curious to an extraordinary degree. He was unafraid of unorthodox ideas,
whether in finance or in other areas of life. He wasn't always right--none of us
are--but he dared to pursue a better idea.

Fourth, there may be something to that clean living business after all. A
conservative Baptist, W.D. didn't smoke, drink, play cards, or dance. He was
serious in demeanor and a conservative dresser, although he lightened up
somewhat in his later years. He respected the value of a dollar and was prudent
in his personal spending. Not every internationally acclaimed seer would
continue to live in a modest house in Brooklyn.

Fifth, faith helps. W.D. studied the Bible all his life. It was his Book of Books. His
own last book, The Magic Work, published in 1950, strongly reflects this
devotion.
And finally, the only lesson for traders I will venture to offer. W.D. never stopped
studying the market. Even after his forecasts happened, even after he achieved
international acclaim. Although he believed in cycles, he also knew that markets
are always changing and that decisions must be made based on today's
conditions, not yesterday's.

W.D. might have rested on his laurels. But he kept studying and seeking greater
understanding. If he couldn't afford to stop, can any trader afford to do so?

John L. Gann Jr., is the grandson of W.D. Gann. Most of the information in this
article comes from W.D. Gann's son, the late John L. Gann, to whom this article
is dedicated. The information herein is believed to be correct but no assurance of
accuracy is offered.

W.D. Gann a Legend
by Les Clemens

W.D. Gann grew up around cotton warehouse where cotton was king.

William Delbert Gann was born June 6, 1878, in Lufkin, Texas, to
Sam H. and Susan R. Gann, immigrants to Texas from the British Isles. Lufkin is
midway between Houston and Texarkana. This part of Texas is cotton country
and Gann's parents lived on a Neches River bottom cotton ranch near Lufkin. He
grew up around the cotton warehouses in Angelina County where cotton was
king. W. D. Gann was raised in a very strict Methodist church family. His mother,
a very religious person, encouraged him to read the Bible at a very early age,
and in fact, wanted him to become a minister. Gann was not sure he wanted to
become a minister, but studying the Bible was certainly easier than working in
the cotton fields, as was his father's wish. He attended church every Sunday with
his parents and as he listened to the sermons found his interpretation of the Bible
scriptures to differ from the minister's. In the Bible he discovered time cycles,
repetition of important numbers, and references to the wise men following the
stars. Also, that it was written in veiled language that made interpreting the real
meaning difficult. Since Gann had a photographic memory, by age 21 he had
nearly memorized the Bible.

During his school years Gann excelled in mathematics and was generally called
as a gifted mathematician. His tremendous appetite for knowledge and his open-
minded attitude led him into many different fields of study that eventually resulted
in discoveries in the markets that would otherwise have been overlooked. He
completed high school in a time when most children were only able to attend
school through the third or fourth grade.
As a teenager, Gann liked to be called W. D., and he used these initials the rest
of his life. W. D. pestered his parents until they relented and signed a minor
release form that he needed to obtain a job. His first job was that of a News
Butcher on the passenger train between Texarkana and Tyler, Texas. This job
required him to be quick-witted, aggressive, and able to deal with all kinds of
people. During his teen years, he worked in the cotton warehouses in Lufkin and
Texarkana, Texas. While working in the cotton warehouse, he was introduced to
commodity trading.

In 1902, at age 24, W. D. Gann made his first commodity trade in cotton, the
market he knew best. The small profit from that trade marked the beginning of
what was to become one of the most remarkable and legendary careers the
speculative markets have ever known. Over the next 53 years, Gann took over
$50,000,000 from the markets. It has been reported by a man who worked for
Gann the last eight years of Gann's life, that approximately 1/3 of the money he
made was for himself and the other 2/3 was for the accounts he supervised for
clients. From that very first trade, it is believed Gann was using principles and
techniques he continued using throughout his trading career. The notations on
some of his early charts substantiated this belief. As time progressed, his trading
methods were refined.
In 1906 W. D. went to Oklahoma City. He worked as a broker for a brokerage
firm, trading for himself while handling large accounts for clients. He studied the
cause of success and failure in the speculation of other traders. He found that
over 90% of traders who enter the markets without knowledge and study usually
lose in the end. Gann also lost a significant amount of money and admitted his
trading was based on hope, greed, and fear. Later on, in his books and courses,
he cautioned all traders about these emotions.

Early on, Gann began to note the periodical recurrence of rise and fall in stocks
and commodities. This led him to conclude that natural law was the basis of
market movements. He then devoted ten years to the study of natural law as
applicable to the speculative markets. During that time he traveled to England,
Egypt, and India to gain knowledge in ancient mathematics and astrology. In the
British Museum in England he conducted extensive research on market cycles.
In an Egyptian temple it is believed he found the basic construction of what was
to become known as his Square of 9 Chart. After exhaustive research and
investigation of the known sciences, he discovered the Law of Vibration enabled
him to accurately determine the exact prices to which stocks or commodities
would trade within a given time, and that each stock or commodity had its own
rate of vibration.
At age 27, Gann was a well-known name in the Southwest. His views on the
analysis of cotton prices were so well respected that a Texarkana newspaper,
The Daily Texarkanian, ran a story on Gann's cotton predictions.

In 1908, at age 30, Gann moved to New York and opened his own brokerage
office at 18 Broadway. He began testing his theories and techniques in the
market. On August 8, 1908, he made one of his greatest mathematical
discoveries for predicting the trend of stocks and commodities. This was The
Master Time Factor. Within a year, it became clear to others that his success
was based on more than just luck. No one researched time cycles as extensively
as Gann. His charts show the cycles with which he worked, went back to history's
beginning, and bore no resemblance to other researcherÕs time cycle studies.

In October 1909, Richard D. Wyckoff, Owner and Editor of The Ticker and
Investment Digest asked Gann for an interview to document his trading ability for
one month. The interview was granted, and Gann's trades were monitored for 25
market days during the month of October in the presence of a Ticker
representative. At that time the markets also traded on Saturday. Gann made
286 trades in various stocks, both long and short. There were 264 trades that
resulted in profits and 22 in losses. 92.3% of the trades were profitable. The
capital used doubled ten times resulting in 1000% gain on his original investment
during those 25 trading days. What makes this even more phenomenal is that
Gann did this with an average time between each trade of about twenty minutes.
In one day Gann made 16 trades in the same stock, 8 of which were in either the
top eighth or the bottom eighth of that particular swing. Such a performance is
unparalleled in the history of Wall Street. As stated by James R. Keene, the
famous speculator of that era, The man who is right 6 times out of 10 will make
his fortune.

It seems a foregone conclusion that Gann was picking tops and bottoms with a
high degree of accuracy. At this point of time, in 1909, he was only 31 years of
age, so whatever methods he was using had already been discovered.

This biographer believes that after his sensational performance Gann regretted
having granted the interview, as it was stated in the printed article that he did not
know the results were to be published. When the article was printed in The Ticker
Investment Digest, Gann was besieged with people asking how he was able to
pick tops and bottoms as he had demonstrated. His only answer to them was he
used The Law of Vibration to make all his calculations. At this conjuncture there
were only two choices: l) to give away his secret discoveries and risk destroying
the markets, or 2) to detract from his method of picking tops and bottoms by
writing books and courses about mechanical trading systems, the use of
geometrical anges, the use of Time and Price Charts, such as the Octagon Chart
(Square of 9), Master 12 Chart (Square of 144), Hexagon Chart (the cube),
Square of 90, Square of 52, 360 Degree Circle Chart, and many other trading
techniques.

If Gann had continued trading using only his method of picking tops and bottoms,
without a doubt he would have become one of the wealthiest men in the world,
and in so doing would have attracted too much attention. He would have been
asked too many questions by traders and would have been compelled to explain.
However, at certain times, he probably used his method to advantage. Gann had
a profound understanding of natural law, so rather than place himself in an
embarrassing situation, he chose to trade using his mechanical systems and
other techniques he had developed. Also, having more capital than was required
for a good living was not important to him, as he was more interested in the
knowledge possessed by ancient civilizations and the occult sciences. Gann
understood how the Laws of Nature controlled human beings and, therefore, he
understood the markets, because the markets are nothing more than an
expression of the actions of human beings.

The two previous paragraphs are my belief. You may agree or disagree, but
before you arrive at a conclusion, carefully study Gann's 1909 trading
demonstration. He made 286 trades in 25 days, which is 11 trades per day. To
do this, you must pick the tops and bottoms on a short intraday time period.

If what I believe is true, it is very sad to think that a genius individual such as W.
D. Gann, had to disguise the truth throughout his life, with a smoke screen of
many trading methods and techniques.

In 1918 his office address in New York was 81 New Street and in the early
1920's was at 49 Broadway. Over the years, Gann maintained several offices in
New York all located on Wall Street with the address numbers of 78, 80, 82, 88,
91, 93 and 99.

At the height of Gann's career, he employed 35 individuals who made charts of
all kinds, did analytical research at his direction, and performed many duties
involved with his various publications and services. The name of one of his
businesses was W. D. Gann Scientific Service, Inc., and the other, initiated in
1919, was W. D. Gann Research, Inc. The firms published the following Supply
and Demand Letters: Daily Stock Letter, Tri-Weekly Stock Letter, Weekly Stock
Letter, Daily Commodity Letter, Tri-Weekly Commodity Letter, and Weekly
Commodity Letter. Telegraph Service was all offered as follows: Daily Telegraph
Service on Stocks, Daily Telegraph Service on Cotton, Daily Telegraph Service
on Grain, and Telegrams on important Changes Only, on Stocks or
Commodities. Published under Annual Forecasts were: Annual Stock Forecast,
Annual Cotton Forecast, Annual Grain Forecast, Annual Rubber Forecast,
Annual Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Forecast. Supplements to all Forecasts were
issued and mailed on the first of each month. Special Forecasts on stocks or
other commodities were made on request. Also offered were daily, weekly,
monthly, quarterly, and swing charts on stocks and commodities. Gann taught
advanced courses of instruction entitled Master Forecasting Method, at a cost of
$2,500, and New Mechanical Method and Trend Indicator, at a cost of $5,000, to
those who want it for their own use and will not publish, sell, or teach it to others.
It is too valuable to be spread broadcasted. The cost of these courses and
personal instruction in today's economics would be $25,000 to $50,000, or more.

As early as 1923, Gann offered a service entitled "The Busy-Man's Service." This
was a service for professional and businessmen where Gann supervised their
trading accounts by advising them what and when to buy and sell. In later years
the name of this service was changed to "Personal Service." The cost of this
service was on a 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, or annual basis, or on a Part-of-
Profit Plan where the monthly fee was smaller and Gann received 5% of the net
profits. Under the Part-of-Profit Plan it was required that a minimum of 100
shares be traded. The clients were advised by telegram or letter.

An article in The Evening Telegram dated New York, Monday, March 5, 1923,
used the words "prophet" and "mathematical seer" to describe Gann. It also
stated his followers declared he was 85% correct in his forecasts. He predicted
the election of Wilson and Harding using fortunate numbers and fortunate letters
combined with cycles. He predicted the abdication of the Kaiser and the end of
the war to the exact date six months in advance. His predictions were based on
mathematics. He stated if he had the data he would use algebra and geometry to
tell exactly by the theory of cycles when a certain thing is going to occur again.
He further stated that there is no chance in nature, because mathematical
principles of the highest order lie at the foundation of all things. The article
pointed out that Gann received calls every day from prominent persons asking
him to cast their horoscope. It also said he told politicians whether or not they
would be elected and solved problems for clergymen, bankers, and statesmen.

In another article in the Morning Telegraph, dated Sunday, December 17, 1922,
the Financial Editor, Arthur Angy, stated that ÒW. D. Gann had scored another
astounding hit in his 1922 stock forecast issued in December, 1921, I found his
1921 forecast so remarkable that I secured a copy of his 1922 stock forecast to
prove his claims for myself. And now, at the closing of the current year of 1922, it
is but justice to say I am more than amazed by the result of Mr. Gann's
remarkable predictions based on pure science and mathematical calculations.

W. D. and his wife, Sadie H. Gann, had one son and three daughters born to
their marriage. Their son, John L. Gann, was in partnership with his father for
several years in the late 1930Õs and early 1940Õs, operating under the firm
name of W. D. Gann & Son, Inc.

Apparently, the two personalities were not always compatible, as their
association was ended in the mid 1940's. This writer has been told one of their
main differences concerned astrology, as John did not believe astrology had any
effect on market movements, or human behavior. This probably upset W. D. as
he knew well the effect of planetary motion on the markets and the individual.
Following the association with his father, John served as a broker for many years
for the firm Sulzbacher, Granger & Co. in New York City. It is believed that John
passed away in 1984.

For many years Gann maintained a home in Scarsdale, New York, which was, at
the time, the estate bedroom community for New York City. In an article that
appeared in the May 26, 1933 New York Daily Investment News, it was reported
that Gann left New York in the first 1933 model Stinson Reliant airplane, piloted
by Flinor Smith, a woman aviator, to conduct an extensive tour of the country
analyzing cotton, wheat, and tobacco crops, and business conditions. The
airplane was equipped with navigation instruments, radio receiving equipment
and extra-large fuel tanks that gave a flying range of 750 miles. It was powered
with a Lycoming engine and cruised at 135 miles per hour. Gann was the first
Wall Street advisor to use an airplane for studying market conditions so he could
advise clients much faster of changing market conditions. During his trip he was
a speaker to members of Kiwanis, Rotary, Chamber of Commerce, and other
business organizations in various larger cities throughout the United States.

In 1935, Gann made an airplane trip to South America for studying crop
conditions, and to gather information on the increase and production of cotton in
Peru, Chili, Argentina, and Brazil. He logged 18,000 miles by air and another
1,000 miles by automobile.
In July of 1936 Gann purchased a specially built all metal airplane, which he
named "The Silver Star," and used in making crop surveys. In July of 1939 he
purchased a new Fairchild airplane for the same purpose.

Gann was a member of the Commodity Exchange, Inc. of New York, the New
Orleans Cotton Exchange, the Rubber Exchange of New York, the Royal
Economic Society of London, the American Economic Society, the Masonic
Lodge, the Shrine, the Chicago Board of Trade, and was a devout Christian in
the Methodist Church.
Gann had a winter home in Miami, Florida, and in the 1940Õs moved there on a
full-time basis. His office was at 820 S. W. 26th Road in Miami. While in Florida,
he continued his advisory services as well as teaching his commodity and stock
market courses, either in person or by mail. By the late 1940"s he had a
recommended list of Books For Sale that included the subjects of numerology,
astrology, scientific, and miscellaneous. He was involved in real estate holdings,
and enjoyed large automobiles, especially Lincolns, which he purchased new
yearly. In 1954, after making several successful coffee and soybean trades,
Gann purchased a fast express cruising boat that he named "The Coffee Bean."
It was reported that Gann wore the same type of suit throughout his life, and that
his home was filled with items collected in his world travels. He vacationed often
in South America. But, in the opinion of his peers, he did not live beyond his
means.
W. D. Gann wrote some of the best books ever written on the stock and
commodity markets. The following is a list of the books written by him and the
year they were published:

Speculation a Profitable Profession
The Truth of the Stock Tape
The Tunnel Thru the Air
Wall Street Stock Selector
Stock Trend Detector Scientific Stock Forecasting
How to Make Profits Trading in Puts and Calls
Face Facts America. Looking Ahead to 1950
How to Make Profits Trading in Commodities
45 Years in Wall Street
The Magic Word
How to Make Profits Trading in Commodities

Gann was a prolific writer. His style of writing was unique. Readers of his books
considered him to be a poor writer with a limited use of the English language. Not
so! Upon methodic study of his work, the reader will discover in time the Gann
method of teaching. He will inspire the reader to research everything from the
origin of numbers to the musical scale and vibrations.

W. D. Gann, in my estimation, was a genius. He was born a Gemini with a high
intellectual capacity, and a dual personality that caused him to be both genial and
obstinate. He was a gifted mathematician, an expert chart reader, and had an
extraordinary memory for figures. Take away his science and he would beat the
market on chart reading alone. One of Gann's most important technical tools was
his charts and no one kept up as many as he did. Gann's charts encompassed
55 years, from 1900 to 1955. During this time thousands of daily, weekly,
monthly, quarterly, yearly, and other various charts, were made with great care,
each a work of art. He believed charting was an art and if you understood
everything the chart was showing, it would aid in forecasting the next day, week,
or month's, price movements. Gann was a workaholic, at times working 17 hours
per day, 6 days per week. He was very demanding of those who worked with and
for him, and expected the same effort from them that he himself put forth. He
expected to issue instructions only once and did not feel it should be necessary
to repeat them.

Gann was deeply analytical and studied price actions of various stocks and
commodities back through the years. He spent nine months in the British
Museum working day and night researching stock and commodity prices and
dates from 1820, and wheat prices and dates from 1200. He also spent long
hours and long days in the Astor Library in New York City researching stock and
commodity markets. He was a student of numbers, number theory, progressions,
and the progression of numbers. His trading system was based on natural law
and mathematics. Since time progresses as the earth rotates on its axis and in its
order, and time is measured by numbers and progression of numbers, and prices
in their movement upward and downward are also measured in numbers, it is
understandable why Gann had an intense interest in numbers, number theory,
and mathematics. A keen understanding of natural laws and their effect on
mankind have a direct effect on the markets. The markets are only extensions or
reflections of man's actions.

In Gann's time there were no calculators. He used a slide rule and the various
master charts he developed, such as the Square of 9, for his calculator. He kept
an open mind to any trading ideas to achieve perfection. When making his
forecasts, he used many methods to arrive at the time for a trend change, and all
of them to confirmed he was correct. In his early trading he made thousands of
dollars. But, by listening to false rumors and other people's ideas, he also lost
thousands of dollars. In 1913 and again in 1919, he lost small fortunes when the
brokerage firms he was trading with went bankrupt. One of these firms was
Murray Mitchell and Company. In those days the client's funds were not
protected by exchange regulations in case of a failure, as they are today.

During this time he was also involved in two bank failures. Regardless of these
losses and misfortunes, he was always able to rely upon mathematical science to
aid him in making a financial comeback. This is why Gann states that knowledge
of the market is more important than money.

Today, people believe "times are different," but Gann's time saw its bull markets
and panics in the stock market, bull markets and panics, in the commodity
market, wars, inflationary periods, depressions, bank closings, etc. In 1921 the
rate of inflation was 100%. Strikes were rampant, jobs impossible to find, and
productivity at very low levels. The Great Depression of 1929 to 1932 and the
outright confiscation of the citizen's gold that was exchanged for printed money,
left deep scars on the country and it's citizens. W. D. Gann was avidly against the
New Deal and Roosevelt's creeping socialism. Therefore, to learn from other
people's past experiences, people today should understand Gann's famous
quotation, "The future is but a repetition of the past, or as the Bible says, the
thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done, is that which
shall be done; and there is no new thing under the Sun." Gann said, "The
average man's memory is too short. He only remembers what he wants to
remember or what suits his hopes and fears. He depends too much on others
and does not think for himself. Therefore, he should keep a record, graph, or
picture of past market movements to remind him what has happened in the past
can, and will, happen in the future. Panics will come and bull markets will follow
just as long as the world stands and they are just as sure as the ebb and flow of
the tides, because it is the nature of man to overdo everything. He goes to the
extreme when he gets hopeful and optimistic. When fear takes hold of him, he
goes to the extreme in the other direction."

The following is taken from 45 Years in Wall Street and is very good advice and
very true in today's world. "Every man takes out of life just exactly according to
what he puts in. We reap just what we sow. A man who pays with time and
money for knowledge and continues to study and never gets to the point where
he thinks he knows all there is to know, but realizes that he can still learn, is the
man who will make a success in speculation or in investments. I am trying to tell
you the truth and give you the benefit of over 45 years of operating in stocks and
commodity markets and point out to you the weak points that will prevent you
from meeting with disaster. Speculation can be made a profitable profession.
Wall Street can be beaten and there is money operating in commodities and the
stock market if you follow the rules and always realize that the unexpected can
happen and be prepared for it."

In How to Make Profits in Commodities -- Gann made the following comments
regarding knowledge as he believed knowledge is power. All who read this
should heed and always remember his advice. "The difference between success
and failure in trading in commodities is the difference between one man knowing
and following fixed rules and the other man guessing. The man who guesses
usually loses. Therefore, if you want to make a success and make profits, your
object must be to know more; study all the time; never think that you know it all. I
have been studying stocks and commodities for forty years, and I do not know it
all yet. I expect to continue to learn something every year as long as I live.
Observations, and keen comparisons of past market movements, will reveal what
commodities are going to do in the future, because the future is but a repetition of
the past. Time spent in gaining knowledge is money in the bank. You can lose all
the money you may accumulate or that you may inherit - that is if you have no
knowledge of how to take care of it - but with knowledge you can take a small
amount of money and make more after time spent in gaining knowledge. A study
of commodities will return rich rewards."
Sometime in 1947, Gann sold W. D. Gann Research, Inc. to C. C. Loosli, a San
Francisco attorney. He became disenchanted with the business and on February
14, 1948, W. D. Gann Research, Inc. was transferred to Mr. Joseph L. Lederer of
St. Louis, Missouri. The office for W. D. Gann Research, Inc. was maintained at
82 Wall Street in New York until 1952. Then it was moved to Scarsdale, New
York, and in 1956 relocated to St. Louis, Missouri, where its only business was
that of investment adviser.

In 1950 in Miami, Florida, Gann and a partner, Ed Lambert, founded Lambert-
Gann Publishing Co. Ed Lambert was an architect who designed the Inter-State
Highway System in the greater Miami area Lambert Gann Publishing Co.
published all Gann's books and courses.

W. D. Gann passed away in the Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn, New York, on
June 14, 1955, at the age of 77. He was survived by his wife, Sadie, three
daughters, and a son. That day the world truly lost a market legend.

After Mr. Gann's death in 1955, Ed Lambert continued to operate the business
that included a chart service of updated Gann style charts. He was not as active
in promoting Gann's writings as when Gann was alive, so for the following twenty
years Gann's work became quite obscure. In 1976 Bill and Nikki Jones of
Pomeroy, Washington, purchased Lambert-Gann Publishing Co. and the Gann
copyrights. In the purchase were all of his personal research including thousands
of his charts, papers, books, and writings he had collected through fifty years of
trading and research. There were also tables and miscellaneous office furniture
used by Gann. The largest Mayflower moving van available was required to
transport this purchase to Pomeroy, Washington. Following Billy Jones' death in
September 1989, Nikki Jones continues to operate Lambert Gann Publishing
Co., carrying on the Gann tradition with the sale of his books and courses. In this
biographer's opinion, W. D. Gann was the greatest market researcher of all time.
His trading career spanned more than a half century. During that time he devoted
his total life to market research and trading. He researched every possible aspect
of natural laws in conjunction with variables of price and time in market
movements. This study became an obsession to find the cause and effect of
market fluctuations, which he did. The trading techniques Gann developed work
the same today as they did when he used them. His library contained volumes of
books and manuscripts on harmonic waves, proportion, growth, gravity,
electricity, nature, and natural phenomena. However, there were no books on
open interest, volume, stocks, or commodities.

The only books and courses on commodities and stocks were his own. He was a
humble man who stated, at age 75, that he had not learned all there was to
know, and yet, he knew more about the markets than any trader who ever lived.
There is an important lesson to be learned from the study of his life and his work.
For those of you who have diligently studied his writings, you will understand my
statements. Hopefully, for those of you who are not familiar with Gann, this
writing will inspire you to begin.

(c) Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 2

Study and Be Prepared
Many times the reading of a book has made the fortune of a man and has
changed his way in life.

If when you are trading, you find yourself feeling inadequate and unable to face
making decisions with enthusiasm and confidence, then this course is for you.
Are you finding yourself making trades that lose money. You can change and
force yourself to become more confident and successful in trading and awaken a
new trader within you with Gann Masters. It doesn't matter who you are or what
type of person you are, you can find self-confidence in trading.
If you look around at your friends and business associates that you know trade or
invest in the markets, you will find that very few of these people are successful in
the markets. Most of them lack the confidence and conviction in trading. The
majority have surrendered to losses. Statistics say that 90% of people lose in the
commodity markets. People blame their brokers, floor traders, outside
circumstances or other conditions for their failure to trade profitably. Eventually,
most people think that their trading is so much controlled by outside events that
they give up trying to improve their results and eventually quit.

W.D. Gann, the greatest trader of all time wrote, Speculation or investment is the
best business in the world if you make a business of it. But in order to make a
success of it you must study and be prepared and not guess, follow inside
information, or depend on hope or fear. If you do, you will fail. Your success
depends on knowing the right kind of rules and following them. He said that
lawyers, doctors, engineers and professional men who make a success spend
anywhere from two to five years time studying and preparing to practice their
profession before making any money. Yet people enter into speculation in Wall
Street without any preparation. They have made no study of it at all. They try to
deal in something they know nothing about. Is it any wonder then that they lose?
Speculators and investors who simply guess, follow tips, rumors, newspaper talk
and so called Inside information have no chance of ever making a success.
Unless they follow some well-defined plan based on science and supply and
demand, they are sure to lose.
Gann Masters is in a unique position to give you the rules of successful Gann
trading. The years of study and experience by the writers of this course will give
you the necessary rules and instructions that will lead to your success in the
markets. You must be willing to study and learn the chapters in this course. It will
take you long hours of study and practice, but you cannot get something for
nothing. It will cost you time and money, but it will be worth it in the end.

You must change your inner aspect of what kind of a trader you are. You must
believe that you are different from most all other traders and that you are going to
be as successful as W.D. Gann was in the markets. You are not what other
people think you are, but what you think you are.

Don't concentrate on your limitations or your failures of past trading. You have
been conditioned since you started trading by people with false ideas and values.
This has limited your full potential. You have the power to change your trading.
You must realize your worth as a strong person and a very successful trader.

We can't change the trading of everyone, but we can help you to change your
own trading. You as an individual trader must take it on yourself to improve your
trading. This course will give you all the information you need to do this. There is
a lot of information contained in this course. One sentence or statement may
contain the necessary missing link in your trading. That link may be what makes
you a successful trader. You must study every part of this course and not ignore
anything. The time has come for you to stop your bad habits of trading and start
putting in the time and money to become a very successful Gann trader.

It has been determined that it takes approximately three weeks to learn a new
idea. It will take you that long to fully understand what is in a chapter. don't
misunderstand me, you may understand what was written, but it will take three
weeks of review before it is imbedded into your mind and it is a habit. Put all
things aside while you are studying a chapter. The hours you spend will be a
small investment compared to the return that you will receive.

To get the best results from these chapters, read the entire chapter through
once. Then return to the chapters that will help you understand the current one. If
necessary reread the current chapter to pick up anything you missed. Emerson
once said: Many times the reading of a book has made the fortune of a man and
has changed his way in life. To use books rightly is to go to them for help; to
appeal to them when our knowledge and power fail; to be led by them into wider
sight and clear conception of our own. Now, if you are ready, let's begin.

You must now assume that the truths you now hold to be true may in fact be
false and those truths may hold you back from your full potential as a successful
Gann trader. don't believe that you can become a very successful trader just with
will power alone. Negative ideas in your imagination can defeat you. No matter
how hard you try, it will be of no use.
You must open your mind freely to all new ideas and forget all false truths you
believe to be true. There is no limit to what you can do if you use your full
imagination to work to becoming a successful trader. Once you believe that you
are a trader as good or better than W. D. Gann, then you will act as though it
were true. You have been unknowingly limiting your full potential through your
Mistaken certainties in your mind. If you can eliminate these Mistaken certainties,
your potential for successful trading will go well beyond anything you know.

You must now awake to the truth and limitations that you have imposed on
yourself. You must now assume that many truths you now hold are in fact false
and that these truths are keeping you back from fully using your potential. You
are primarily a product of what you have been taught up to now. If you want to
change and become a successful trader, you must learn to understand
everything that is taught to you and not believe it to be true, until you have
proved it to yourself. You will be given many Gann trading techniques, but do not
accept them as truth, until you have proved them out to yourself.
You must be self-reliant. This will be a deterrent to the idea that other traders are
smarter, wiser or more intelligent than you are. And, so, you look to them for
support for trading ideas that may be unprofitable. It is impossible to become a
very successful trader if you are thinking other traders are smarter than you are.

When you become self-reliant you also will have the courage to listen to your
inner feeling for hints or signs that you are on the right track. You will be taking a
cue from the successful trader you are, not listening to someone outside of your
inner thoughts. When you learn to follow the signs correctly and your inner
prompting for hints on how to trade a particular situation, you will be a successful
trader.
Dependency on the ideas of another trader is slavery by your own consent. it's
very degrading for you to be dependent on the trading ideas of another person.
One sure sign of dependency is that you will look up to the other trader as
superior.

Advice from others in the trading arena is everywhere. Most of it is free and not
worth anything. You can have at any one time a dozen unpaid advisors who want
to give you their opinion. Most of these advisors are, in fact, not qualified to give
advice, but merely have the title that shows that they must know what they are
talking about. Most of these advisors can't trade their own accounts successfully,
so how can they advise you to trade successfully. Overcoming your dependency
on other traders is difficult to do. You have been trained since childhood to
depend on other people. It did play an important role in your growing up and
education, but it was never meant to take over your individual identity or thinking.
Remember this important saying, No one can ever let you down if you haven't
been leaning on them. No one can make you lose money in the markets, if you
are not dependent on them for your trading ideas. Once you have developed
your self-reliance, you do not have to procrastinate or evade making a decision
to make a trade, because you will be confident to meet the situation with total
self-assurance.

You must accept yourself as a successful and intelligent trader. You can never
be better than your own self-acceptance as a successful trader. Almost all of
your problems in making trades are directly a result of how you feel about
yourself as a successful trader. You can never be a better trader than how good
of one you feel you are. You must have positive self-esteem about your own
trading talents and abilities.

Many traders seem to have a high self-esteem about their own trading talents
and abilities on the surface. However, underneath, they are victims of their own
low self-esteem. This low self-esteem gets worse the longer they trade, until they
go broke or completely give up. If you hope to be a successful trader, you must
develop a high self-esteem of your own trading abilities.

You must love studying and applying the techniques of Gann to the markets.
Learn to love studying and applying the trading techniques to the markets. There
is not one successful Gann trader who does not fully love what he is doing. You
will have to spend many hours studying, learning and researching mathematical
trading techniques, but it will be enjoyable and financially rewarding. How much
you love what you're doing, whether it be your current job or studying the
techniques of W. D. Gann, will determine how successful you are.

Everything you need for successful trading lies within you. Your mind is your
most usable asset to succeed in learning and trading the techniques of W.D.
Gann. If you knew the powers in your mind, it would stagger your imagination.
You must make full use of this very powerful resource to succeed in trading. You
need to go way beyond what you think your mind can do. don't let it be limited by
what you think it can do. donut look elsewhere for help, because you have in
your mind all the great power to understand and fully use Gann techniques to
trade and succeed with.

Successful trading requires that you devote yourself to fulfilling specific financial
goal. If you do not fully commit yourself to this goal, you will be like a ship without
a chart to follow and will eventually end up shipwrecked on a lost shore. Studies
have shown that individuals that have a definite plan are more likely to succeed
and be happy in life. At this time in beginning your studies of Gann, you need to
make a plan that will use all your talents and abilities. You must take the time
right now to figure out how much you want to study and what you want to do with
this knowledge of trading, otherwise, you will end up like a shipwrecked captain.

If you are to achieve your maximum potential as a trader you must give yourself
a physical and mental rest and relaxation period with inner communication
through meditation. The meditation will establish a contact with the inner source
of power within you. It will cleanse your mind and open it up to be receptive to the
techniques of Gann. When you have trouble understanding a part of Gann, it will
guide you back to the right path again and help you to achieve your full potential.
It will also help you feel totally a peace with yourself.

Eliminate fear of failing. Fear has been around in trading the markets since they
began. It has been the major cause of all market crashes. Fear is your enemy
and a destructive emotion which will destroy your self-confidence in trading. If
you are afraid, it is impossible to become very successful at trading. To remove
any fear in yourself, you must have a positive mental attitude about yourself. Use
the power within you to gain success at trading the markets and eliminate fear.
Live a day at a time. Make positive statements to yourself continually during the
day to help your mental attitude.

You must study the markets and know and understand them fully. You must
prove all rules and techniques you have in your tool box. When you see the rules
and techniques work over and over again, your confidence will overtake the fear
you once had in trading the markets. As you cultivate a positive mental attitude
about trading with the techniques of W.D. Gann, a new successful you will occur
to trade the markets. You will be a trader with power and direction. Once you
have fully committed yourself, you will never be the same again.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 3

Capital Required

Did you ever wonder why that most of the people who actively trade the
markets loose money? Why is it that a few of the people who actively trade the
markets consistently make money year after year? These are professionals who
make it their living to trade the markets full time. A lot of their success has to do
with money management. The information given in this chapter will help you to
understand what these few people do right and what the majority of the traders
do wrong.

Do you think that successful trading in the markets has to do with superior
intellect? People think that if they had superior intellect they would make more
money in the markets. This is not true. Superior intellect is important, but it is not
the answer to profits. I know many highly intellectual people trading the markets
with consistent losses. You know them too. Superior intellect alone is not the
prerequisite for making profits in the markets. To be successful in the markets
you must have a combination of wisdom, experience and self-mastery. This is
the three important prerequisites for success in trading the markets. Very few
traders will attain these important qualifying factors. Success in trading the
markets partly comes from mastering the guidelines of money management,
which you will learn in this chapter.

Perhaps the biggest negative factor in successfully trading the markets comes
from psychological factors. Your emotion sets in when you have either a big loss
or a big gain. It’s hard to control yourself. It’s just human nature taking over.
Stress in trading can make you do the wrong things at different times in the
market. These can be very costly mistakes that you can never make up.

To handle the psychological negative factors of the market, you must understand
the following:

1. No one makes money in the market all the time. If someone tells you they do,
then they are lying. Even the most successful of all traders loses money from
time-to-time. Loosing is part of this type of business. In loosing, it is important to
cut your losses short and go on with the game plan.

2. You must have a plan to invest with. In the Gann Master’s course you will
learn a plan which you can stick with. The plan should tell you what to do when
your forecast is right and it should tell you what to do when your forecast is
wrong. You must set a definite dollar amount that you are willing to loose in the
markets if things go wrong.

3. You will learn in Gann Masters how to completely screen what you are going
to trade in. There are several different approaches you can select and they will
be based both on mathematics of the markets and on your own psychology to
trade with them. When you make a trade, you will learn to look at all factors of
the trend of the market. You will look at the long, intermediate and short term
trends of the market. It will be necessary for you to obtain data going back to at
least 60 years in most cases. This is Gann’s most important rule of always going
with the trend of the market and never bucking it.

4. Stops must always be used to protect your capital. This is basic insurance just
like you have on your car and house.

By following the above rules you will gain confidence in trading. You will
eventually gain a sixth sense in trading. Something in your gut will tell you not to
invest in a particular situation. If you have that feeling, then don’t trade in that
situation. You have developed a higher level of trading then most people can
attain.

You must follow successful money management techniques. You first must know
what is your available capital for trading and what part of it should be risked in
the markets. This determines the particular strategy that you should use in
trading the markets.

If you are just starting out trading, then you should follow the principle of only
trading a percentage of your capital. For example, when you complete the Gann
Masters course and your have proven with paper back testing of a trading plan
that you are ready to trade, start with this percentage method. Say you have
$50,000 to trade with, then you should only use only 20% of it to trade with until
you have proven to yourself that the method works in the real markets. If you are
trading with futures or options, remember that these vehicles are highly
leveraged. You can go into a series of loses at any time. You should break up the
$10,000 into 10 separate parts. That means that you could loose 10 times before
the $10,000 would be gone. If you are using solid trading techniques, then it
should not happen. If you are trading stocks, futures or options, then each of the
trades should risk the same amount of money or $1,000 each. It is more difficult
to trade if futures and options than in stocks because these vehicles are so highly
leveraged.

After you are an experienced trader you can allocate more of your trading capital
to a trade based on:

     1) Market patterns

     2) The trend of the market

     3) Cycles of the market

How much capital should you risk on each trade? This should be based on the
profit potential of the trade. Using Gann Masters you should be able to forecast
where the stock or option should go and when it will get there. You make a
careful analysis of several investments. Begin with the best and go down the list.
Starting out, you should not have any more than 3-5 positions at anyone time.
This should give you the best possible trading results. If you are trading mutual
funds then these 3-5 positions can be in sectors of the market. How much money
you put into any one position is really based on your skill and expertise. The
more experience you have, the more you can put in one particular trade.
Remember, even if you are an experienced trader, you need to protect your
capital at all times with stop loses.

You must make a plan of capital preservation to be successful in the markets. It
is very important that you understand the amount of capital required to trade the
markets. You want to have the ability to continue to trade the markets for the next
year to twenty years without being wiped out. Most traders have no capital
trading plan, use fear and greed to trade by, and over trade. It’s no wonder that
90% of commodity traders lose. Those 10% that do make money, of course, are
the ones that have learned how to trade. They make all the money that the
others lose. If you make a plan of capital preservation, you will always have the
necessary capital to trade with, even if you have the expected losses in the
markets. If you put all your capital at risk in the markets on a couple trades, like
so many traders do, then you will surely lose it all and be out of the game.
Preservation of capital is your first rule to apply with all your trades.

Here is another example from Chapter 3 of the Gann Master’s textbook. This is
specifically on futures trading. On the Chicago Board of Trade, the grains trade in
units of 5000 bushels. When wheat is trading where it is now at $3.50 - $3.75 per
bushel, you need 20% of the value of the total contract to safely trade the market,
though the exchanges charge only 5% margin. If you fully leverage your position
on the 5% margin, you will be scared out of the markets with fear and greed and
will surely lose, so use the 20% margin rule to safeguard your capital. If wheat is
selling at $3.75, you would multiply this amount times 5000 bushels to get
$18,750 as the total value of the contract. 20% of the contract value is $3750.
Therefore to trade a 5000 bushel contract of wheat at $3.75, you should have
$3750 of capital. The exchange margin on a contract of wheat at that level is
about $1000 or 5%. You therefore have an excess of $2750 over the initial
margin required. Divide the $2750 by 10 giving you a potential of 10 trades
possible with a maximum loss of $275 each before you’re out of the game.

Your average risk, should never be more than 10% of the excess capital above
the initial margin rate of the contract. You should have enough money to trade
the market 10 times, and have ten straight losses, before you would be wiped
out. This should never happen, if you have a trading plan and trade according to
the rules of successful trading, which you will learn in this course. It’s very rare
that you would even have three consecutive losses, and even if you did, then the
next trade could make you 10% on your money giving you a large gain over your
small losses. Your capital for trading commodity markets should be at least 20%
of the total contract value. You should never risk more than 10% of your excess
margin money on any one trade, so you can trade at least 10 times before you
are out of the game. If the market is in a major uptrend, as the market gets
higher, you will need more capital to trade. If wheat rises to $4.50 per bushel, you
will need $4500 to trade each contract and you would never risk more than 10%
of your excess margin capital on each trade, so you could have 10 losing trades
before you were out of the market.



Margin for trading a contract of wheat

3.75 per bushel

X 5000 bushels

_____________

$1850

X 20%

_____________

= $3750 necessary capital

$1000 initial capital

_____________________

= $2750 excess capital
divided by 10

_____________________

= $275 the amount of stop for each trade

which means there is a maximum of 10 losing trades with this stop

Here is an example of buying stocks on margin from the Gann Master’s textbook.
In the stock market, the capital requirement rules are different. If you buy stocks,
you have two choices, either put up the full purchase price of the stock or put the
stock on margin and put up 50% of the value of the stock and pay interest on the
other 50% usually at 1% above broker call rate. In either case, you still must
follow the rules of capital preservation. Never risk more than 10% of your trading
capital above the initial margin required on any one trade. If you purchase 100
shares of a stock at $50.00 per share the total amount of the transaction is
$5000. I am not taking into account commission for this example, but for your
own trading you also need to take into account commission costs. If you
purchase this on margin, you would have to put up 50% or $2500. You should
have at least 50% of the total value of the stock above the initial margin. Divide
this 50% into 10 equal parts to figure out what amount each stop should be. You
can vary this percent, but it must be based on how active the stock is. If you use
the same rule that is used in commodities, you would not risk more than 10% of
the excess margin on any one trade. Therefore in this case, 50% of the total
value of the stock is $2500 and that divided into 10 equal parts is $250 maximum
loss per trade to stay in the game.

It is very important that you know how much leverage you are using in the
markets. This can greatly affect your success at trading. If you are trading futures
the leverage is approximately 5-10%. In options the leverage is even higher,
sometimes only 1-5%. A big move can greatly affect your profit or loss in these
vehicles. Leverage is your friend and can be used to your advantage. With this
valuable tool, you can reach your goal of trading profits, if it is handled correctly.
If you misuse leverage, it will kill you. Very few traders analysis leverage
correctly.

You can also estimate what your probable losses are from a trade as well as the
probable gains. Go back and look on the historical charts for the same type of
patterns. When the trade worked it went to its objective and when it didn’t work, it
had a certain amount of a normal loss. The key to successful trading is
understanding the past and that is what Gann Masters is all about.

Before you trade any particular method you learn in Gann Masters, you need to
go back and paper trade it. If the paper trade is successful then you will gain the
confidence you need to successfully trade the method. This is very important, as
psychology and lack of confidence is the biggest killer of the trader. In paper
trading you will come up with a maximum drawdown at any one time. You might
have three straight losses. This will give you a figure to watch for. You will learn
the amount of the maximum drawdown that you will usually have. You need to
have this amount of capital in reserve so you don’t get wiped out of the market.
You might also find that if you have one drawdown then you should cut the
amount of the next drawdown until the market straightens out. Sometimes the
market is not trending and is whipsawing traders. This is when you get those
drawdowns. Usually after three losses in a row the market will then start trending
again. Most traders are looking for a system that gives them the most profit.
That’s all well and good, but it is also important to have a system that gives you
the least drawdown.

To analysis you’re trading method, you might construct an equity graph. You can
do this will a spreadsheet program like excel. It can be done in just a few
seconds every day. At the end of every day just enter the amount of your total
equity in your account. The excel program will graph it and tell you the amount of
your biggest drawdowns. It is very important to know the amount of the biggest
annual drawdown, so you can be prepared for it, as this might be when ends
your trading career. You can also use the program to tell you other important
information such as your return on your trading account and such things as
seasonality and times of the year that your loose. You could also from this graph
determine your yield on your trading and even compare it with what the S&P has
done for the year.

You can download the sample Microsoft Excel Equity file by clicking the following
file: (You must have Microsoft Excel in your computer for this to work).

Equity Excel File (click to download)

Date     Equity

 11/1/98 $50,000.00
 11/2/98 $50,125.00
 11/3/98 $50,100.00
 11/4/98 $50,200.00
 11/5/98 $50,500.00
 11/6/98 $50,700.00
 11/9/98 $50,900.00
11/10/98 $50,600.00
11/11/98 $50,500.00
11/12/98 $50,800.00
11/13/98 $51,340.00
11/16/98 $51,450.00
11/17/98 $51,550.00
11/18/98 $51,300.00
11/19/98 $51,200.00
11/20/98 $51,000.00
11/23/98 $51,300.00
11/24/98 $51,500.00
11/25/98 $51,500.00
11/26/98 $51,700.00
11/27/98 $52,000.00
11/30/98 $51,900.00




Your yield on the trading account can greatly be enhanced with compounding
situations. This is the advantage of a trader over an investor. You can achieve
rates of return far above the average buy and hold investor. With higher
compounding yields you will be able to achieve your financial goals much sooner
that normal. As a successful trader you could achieve annual rates of return of
20-200%! The key to successful trading is, of course letting your profits run and
stopping out of losses quickly. If you let your profits run you will need to finally
determine when to take profits. That will be determined on several factors. The
chart objectives, your age, wealth and psychology of trading. After you take
profits in a trade, you should also reward yourself by giving yourself a gift, or
sometime off or going out to eat and celebrating. All work and no play are not
good for you or anyone. You should also take some money out of the market on
each successful trade and put it aside and let it accumulate.

Your money should only be risked when the long, intermediate and short term
charts give you the probabilities of a successful trade. The major market trend,
and your own trading skills and psychology are all important factors for success
in trading. If you are a new trader then you should use the percentage rule and
only risk a small amount of your capital until you have proven it to yourself that
you can trade successfully. You need to learn how to use money management
intelligently to succeed trading the markets. Increased leverage can be used from
time to time to enhance your overall profits, but this must be done with
experience. You must have a clear understand of money management to
succeed in trading the markets.

(c) Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 4

The Right Kind of Charts
To start trading according to the rules of W.D. Gann you must have the right kind
of charts.


It's very important to have the right kind of charts to follow stocks or
commodities. The major problem with most traders is they don't have the right
kind of charts to study the market correctly. If you talk to a carpenter or a surgeon
or any professional person, they will tell you the importance of having the
necessary tools to get the job done right. Can you imagine a surgeon operating
on a patient with a dull scalpel or a carpenter using a dull saw? We'll that's
precisely what a trader is doing when he trades with many of today's chart
programs and services. Traders risk thousands of dollars trading with ineffective
tools. If you are going to build a house, it is very important to build it on a strong
foundation. To start trading according to the rules of W. D. Gann you must have
the right foundation, and that's a proper and correct chart.

Gann used long 36 inch wide heavy weight K&E pure cotton chart paper to plot
his chart data on. The grid lines were orange. The roll was 50 yards long. It cost
Gann about $10 a roll in his time. He had a staff of secretaries updating these
charts on a daily basis. The secretaries were in the outer office and he was in the
inner office. He would quietly research and trade with the trends of the markets
using these charts in a closed private office. The only time anyone was let in his
private office was to bring his lunch in a noon.

We used to sell the same K&E 36 inch x 50 yard chart paper in the early 90s.
Initially the cost of each roll was around $38 per roll. Within 8 years the cost had
risen to $150 a roll. K&E was then bought out by another company and the chart
paper was completely dropped.

We also used to sell the charts with data plotted on them. We would use another
type of K&E paper for this. It came in onion-skin thickness. By using this chart
paper, we could plot data on the charts with rapidograph pens and take them to a
local blue printer and they would run off hundreds of copies of these charts. We
would sell them for $3.50 each and many clients would buy 10 - 20 charts. They
were updated through Thursday and sent out on Friday. When our clients
received them, they only had to update a couple of days to bring the charts up to
date. These charts came in monthly, weekly and daily charts. Clients could get
the long-term, intermediate-term and short-term perspective of the markets.

The advantage of these charts was that you could spread the charts out in front
of you and see the whole picture. The monthly charts went back 10 - 15 years,
the weekly charts went back 5 years and the daily went back 2 - 3 years. Another
advantage of these charts is that you could construct plastic overlays and lay the
left top or bottom corner of the overlay on an important high and you could
calculate the probably direction of the market. You could also move the overlay
to best fit. That means when a trend starts it continues in time and sometimes
there is a shift in time. It might be 1 - 2 days. To correct for this you merely move
the overlay to fit the trend of the current market.

Many traders also believed that updating these charts by hand gave them a
better feel of the market. Most traders would update the daily charts everyday
and the weekly and monthly charts would be updated at the end of every week.
Until you have done this, you won't know what I mean. It does give you a better
feel of the market. Ask any trader that used to update his charts by hand and
they will tell you what I mean.

Later we created a program called Max:Chart that would use data on disk to print
large format charts. It would print two 15 inch strips which we would then tape
together in to a chart approximately the size Gann used. A standard 15 inch
Epson printer could be used. We would then send these charts out to clients
instead of the large blue print type charts. They could be sent out on demand as
they could be printed within a short period of time. The Max:Chart program was
also available for purchase. We sold hundreds of them. When Microsoft shifted to
Windows 95 the chart program would no longer work with the new operating
system, so we dropped the program.

Today there are many types of chart programs you can purchase. TradeStation,
SuperCharts, MetaStock are the leaders in the professional chart arena. You
have probably heard of them. They also feature the ability to scroll back to see
more data on the screen. The programs only allow you to place various types of
trendlines the charts. No Gann Squares can be plotted. Many of the charts in the
Gann Course you have are done with TradeStation. Some of these programs
also allow you to have both end-of-day or intra-day charts. Intra-day charts allow
you to fine-tune your entry down to the very minute, if you want to. TradeStation
costs around $2000 - $4000 and MetaStock is $399, MetaStock Pro is $1,495.
Chapter 5
Know the Trend

Trend is the most important thing you can know about the market.
The most important thing you can know about the market is its trend. The market
can do three things:
1. Go up
2. Go down
3. Consolidate sideways

Types of Trends
The market can have these three types of trends:
1. Short term
2. Intermediate term
3. Long term

Entry Technique
Gann’s entry technique for trading is as follows:

To Buy
If the long term trend (monthly charts) is up, wait for the intermediate term trend
(weekly charts) to break up out of a long running consolidation and then buy after
the first short term (daily charts) drop turns up.

To Sell
If the long term trend (monthly charts) of the market is down, wait for the
intermediate term trend (weekly charts) of the market to break down out of a long
running consolidation and then sell after the first short term (daily charts) rally
turns down.

Low Volatility Entry
In a situation like this you can put on your position with low volatility and close
stops without too much risk. In this technique you are using Gann’s rule of buying
based upon the market making new highs on the monthly and weekly charts, but
using the daily short term reactions to enter your positions. You’ll never make
consistent money in commodities unless you have the psychology to buy high
and sell low. Don’t be afraid do this because this technique produces some of the
biggest profits from trends in the markets.
Market in Strongest Position
The market is in the strongest direction when all three types of trends are in one
direction as indicated:

1. Long term up

2. Immediate term up

3. Short term up with this technique, you will have all three trends in the same
direction.

4. What Charts to Use

To figure out the trend of the market, you should use:

1. Daily charts to tell short term

2. Weekly charts to tell intermediate term

3. Monthly and yearly charts to tell long term

Market Activity
The market will typically have low activity at the bottom and abnormally high
activity at the top. Watch the average daily, weekly or monthly range to indicate if
you’re near a top or bottom.

Time Factor
The time factor is very important for showing a change in trend. When the trend
of a market makes a change, the number of days of a reaction will increase over
the last reaction. This is probably one of the first indications of a change of trend
in a market. You need to keep an eye on the number of days reaction in both
calendar and market trading days.

Calendar Days
To count calendar days, you count all trading days plus weekends and holidays.
It’s very simple. It is much easier to use the Excel spread sheet for calendar time
counts. This will be explained in a later chapter.

Trading Days
To count trading days you must follow two very important rules: 1. Don’t count
inside days. Those are days in which the current trading day’s high and low are
inside the previous day’s high and low. 2. If a market rallies stops and backs up
over 50% of it’s move, you start your count over. 3. To be a valid swing, the
market must make a 2 day swing. That means that the market must have 2 days
of consecutive newer highs or lows. 4. You must figure out the minimum amount
of a move to count for a swing. In the case of TBonds, I determined the minimum
was 1 full point. 5. The market will usually have approximately the same number
of swings in its thrusts and reactions. There will be more on this in a later
chapter. The market swings should be labelled for easy identification. In all
uptrends mark all swing points. Mark all downswing points. There will be more in
a later chapter concerning these swing numbers. It’s best to buy or sell on
number 3 tops and bottoms.

The Importance of the Time Factor
The time counts of a market are very important. They tell you when a market is
turning. Sometimes the turn is hard to detect. This is one way to determine a
change in trend. There are other methods that you must use with this method to
be more accurate. You will learn those later in other chapters.

Time Sheets
To know the accurate time count on a market is necessary. You should keep a
written record on the market. This can be used on daily, weekly and monthly
charts. This time sheet also has the ability to tract points move.
Chapter 6

Mathematics

Mathematics is the basis of all forecasting in the markets.
Using mathematics is an absolute necessity to trade the stock or commodity
markets successfully. The traders who master the art of trading the markets with
mathematics will be successful. Those who don't will fail. It's as simple as that.
Traders who rely on tips and rumors will eventually lose. By taking this course
you show the desire to succeed by going beyond what the normal trader will do.
You are showing your desire to study, understand and apply mathematics to the
market. It will take a lot of study for you to succeed, but you are on the right
course. Those traders who think they can use computer trading programs alone
with simple oscillators will fail. Many of these traders spend hundreds of hours of
their valuable study time trying to make some definite pattern or way to use
oscillators. They won't be able to do it. You need mathematics to succeed in the
markets.

It looks so easy to trade with oscillators when you look back on past charts. You
just sell when the stochastics is at the top and buy when it's on the bottom. It
works some of the time, but sometimes it sets you up for a blood bath. For
example, sometimes when the stochastics gets to the top, in an apparent sell
mode, the market will take off and explode, leaving you with big losses if you
shorted the market. The same thing happens when the stochastics gets to the
bottom. If you buy when the stochastics is at the bottom, sometimes the market
will fall out of bed giving you huge losses. Traders who follow only oscillators
don't know when the market is approaching major or minor geometric angles or
timing cycles. They have no idea of where the market might be heading. They
will short the market when the stochastics oscillator is at the top and not know
that the market is resting on a major geometric angle or time cycle. The market
will then explode giving them huge loses. Check around with traders that use
oscillators. You will find that they generally loose money in the markets. The only
traders who consistently make money in the markets are traders who use
mathematical methods of trading. These are based on the true mathematics
behind the market caused by the vibration of numbers. Prior highs and lows and
their interactive harmony waves and geometric angles are the real cause behind
market movements.
Oscillators can be used to successfully trade with, but only if they are used with
other time and price trading techniques to support them. In this course we go
over how displaced moving averages, stochastics and MACD can be used to
trade the market mathematically. It is the only Gann way to use oscillators.

It's a puzzle why most traders don't use mathematics to buy and sell stocks and
commodities and to forecast trends in the markets. It's very easy after you learn
the mathematical trading techniques and it's 100% more reliable than using other
techniques. It's also much more consistent. Mathematics is something that you
can depend on. In this course, after you learn the principles of trading market
mathematics you will never want to hear tips or rumors again. You will find that if
someone offers their view of the market to you, you'll want to shut them out and
not let them influence you. After you know the rules of mathematics behind the
market you will find your sixth sense develops and many of the techniques you
learned in this course will start relating to each other. Your mind will have a
unique sense of where the market is headed.

In using mathematics for trading the markets, it is important to know that the
market can go only two directions. It can go up or down or it can just move
sideways. Prices can increase or decrease or just stay the same. They can do
nothing else. We will use mathematics to figure out if the markets will go up or
down. There are various methods to use to determine this. They involve the use
of mathematical trend analysis and timing techniques developed by W.D. Gann.

The Cube
There are three measurements in a cube: length, width and height. We can use
these measurements to figure out market movement. The market can be clocked
in time in two different ways. One way is using trading days and the other is
using calendar days. Many traders will use both as a check on each other. For
example, a market might make a bottom and advance 90 market days to the next
major top. That move would be 126 calendar days if you added the weekends.
Most of the time the calendar day count will coincide with the market day count.
The two together, will usually give you a time window. This window will contain 2
- 3 days where the market will top or bottom. In this example there are 90 trading
days. Divide 90 trading days by 5 days to the week. You get 18 weeks. Weeks
have two weekend days, so multiply 18 times 2 to get 36 weekend days. Add
these 36 weekend days to 90 and you get 126 calendar days, which is very close
to the 120 circle number. The ratio of trading days to calendar days is 1.4 which
is close to the Gann Square of 144 or 10 times 1.44 is 144 a very important
number.

Time measurements can be based on several techniques. One technique is
using natural fixed numbers. These are the numbers that can be divided into the
circle of 360 degrees. These are: 9, 18, 27, 36, 45, 72, 90, 120, 180, 270 and
360. Markets fall or rise by these exact numbers. The other technique is using
variable numbers based on market highs, lows and ranges. If the market makes
a high at 540 and a low of 410 the difference is 130. The markets often retrace
one half of this or rise for 65 days.

The vertical or height movement of the market is price. Price calculations can use
the same techniques as time measurements such as natural fixed numbers or
variable numbers. For example, if the market makes a bottom at 90 it can rise 90
days and 90 points and square at that point and turn down.

A combination of height, width and length of a cube is volume of a cube. A
market has to move up and down a certain number of vibrations to fill the volume
of a cube before the market will change directions. Count the swings of a bull
market and it should equal the swings of a prior bull market. See Exhibit 6.2. in
the course book. A bear market also should have the same number of swings as
prior bear markets and they should be in proportion to prior bear markets and bull
markets. A simple example is the Elliott wave counts of the market. Wave one is
a count of 1, wave two down is 2, wave three up is 3, wave four down is 4, and
wave five up is 5. Inside of these waves are smaller waves and the total wave
count of one bull market should equal some prior bull market of the same
commodity or stock.

A cube also has six sides. This means that the market will repeat itself every 6
intervals. That means you should check back every 6 days, 6 months, 6 years, or
(6 X 10) 60 years and the market will repeat itself. Be careful as the market has
inversions in those repeat time cycles. That means for example 6 months ago if
the market made a low, today it might invert and make a high instead. You
should be watching for price patterns so you don't get caught in an inversion.

In geometry there are 3 basic shapes: the square, the circle, and the triangle.
See Exhibit 6.4 in the course manual. The square, of course, represents time and
price. The horizontal is time and the vertical is price. From the square we
determine everything, both timing and price projection. If we put the 360 degree
circle inside of the square and the three sided triangle inside the circle and the
square this will give us the means to determine time and price points for
forecasting the markets. As you remember, the fixed time points are from the
circle of 360 degrees. The triangle helps us divide the circle into the three points
of 120 degrees. The 120 degree points are some of the most important points of
the circle. The Gann wheel or the Square of 9 is constructed from the square, the
circle and the triangle.

We can use three different basic angles to determine time and price within the
markets: the vertical, the horizontal and the diagonal line. The vertical is price,
the horizontal is time and the diagonal is a combination of the two which is
change of time and price. The horizontal and vertical lines divide the circle into
the important 90 degree points. The triangle can then be used to divide the 90
degree points into 45 degree points. From these three geometric shapes, we get
all the calculations in mathematics for time and price projections in the markets.
In combination with the angles, we can use the squares of both odd and even
numbers to get the cause behind the market movements. These numbers are
actually part of the square when they are laid out according the Gann Square of
9.

Constructing Charts Properly
For geometric angles to work properly on charts, it is necessary for the charts to
be constructed properly. You'll find the rules in this chapter of the Gann Master's
Course. If the charts are not constructed properly, then one small error can throw
off your measurement and give you a loss in the markets. A very small error at
the beginning can lead to a huge loss later on. Study this chapter in the course
book so you know these rules.

Geometric Angles
Geometric angles accurately measure time and price movements. There are 360
degrees in a circle and certain numbers in the circle are very important. In this
course, you will learn which numbers are important. These numbers will indicate
to you when important tops and bottoms are being formed. They will also indicate
important support and resistance levels in regard to both time and price. You
must study and practice with these numbers once you learn them to determine
their importance.

Geometric angles are used to measure time and price movements because they
are much easier than using addition, subtraction, multiplication or division in the
markets, provided you use correct rules for drawing the angles correctly. Angles
can correct mistakes in mathematics. For example, if you count across the
bottom of your chart 90 squares across and 90 squares up and draw a 45 degree
angle down from the left high point, the angle should intercept the 0 line at
exactly 90 squares to the right. Thus angles, if drawn properly, will help you to
correct mistakes in mathematics on your charts. Angles, will help you to know the
position the market is in all the time. If you figure the market using mathematics
such as addition, subtraction, multiplication or division and write these
calculations down on paper, you will misplace and lose these calculations much
of the time. Having the angles drawn on your chart allows you always to know
the position the market is in all the time and you will always know when the
market changes trend.

Geometric angles accurately measure and divide time and price into
proportionate parts. If a stock or commodity makes a low on a certain price for
example 34, it has three dimensions of time and price. It can move sideways for
34 time units, it can move up for 34 price units, and it can move diagonally 34
time and price points from which it began. Accurate measurements can be taken
from previous highs, lows, and the ranges in between. There is always proportion
between previous highs, lows, and swings of the market.

90 Square Chart
The 90 square pattern chart is very important to use in trend analysis. See
Exhibit 3.3 in the course. This chapter tells you the secrets of constructing this
square on plastic. Study it carefully. It means a lot!

The 90 degree square also helps you to understand the principles of Gann's
mathematics. First you divide the number by the odd or even numbers such as 4
or 3. Divide the sides of the square first by 4 and then by 3 giving you 1/4, 1/2,
3/4, 4/4, 1/3, 2/3, 3/3. Then if necessary divide the sides even further by going
one step further such as 1/8, 1/4, 3/8, 1/2, 5/8, 3/4, 7/8, 8/8, 1/6, 1/3, 2/3, 5/6,
6/6. What you are doing is multiplying the 4 and the 3 by 2 to get the next
divisions of 8 and 6. To go even further you multiply by 2 again to get 18 and 12.
Keep going out further to find the more precision numbers.

Also in course manual all the angles are explained and what they mean. Study
them carefully.

When to Draw Daily Angles
When do you draw the angles on the chart? You draw them only after the market
has been in a downtrend for at least 3 days and then the market has a three day
rally making higher tops and bottoms. The first angle you draw is the 1 x 1. You
next draw the 2 x 1 and then the 4 x 1. If the market stays above the 4 x 1, it will
accelerate. If the market breaks the 1 x 1 then you should be begin using the
bear angles below the 1 x 1.

Also study in the course manual for this chapter when to draw weekly and
monthly angles, and when to draw bull and bear angles.

Practice with all of these geometric angles over and over again. Knowing how to
put these angles on your charts will tell you the position of the market at all
times.

You will also learn how to draw the important fixed number lines and top and
bottom of range lines. All of these are very important.

Did you know that geometric angles will hold only when the 5th, 3rd or C wave of
a market is complete. If the wave pattern is not complete, then the angle will
eventually break. This is why so many people lose money trading the Gann
angles. They do not know what they are doing. If the market is falling and it lands
on the 1 x 1 angle and it is only in its 3rd wave down of a 5th wave move, it may
bounce off the 1 x 1, but on the next down it will penetrate the angle and go to
the next angle until the market completes the fifth wave down. When the market
does complete the 5th wave, then and only then can you look for the nearest
Gann angle for support. This is one of Gann's secrets, which he failed to reveal in
his courses. You must know not only the Gann angles, but also know where in
the wave pattern you are. This tells you the direction of the market. The Gann
methods only tell time and price support points.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 7

Elliott Wave Theory

Elliott waves should be a necessary part of your overall trading method. The
Elliott Wave Theory uses a very complicated set of rules that are subject to
change anytime. You will find that very few Elliott wave traders can ever agree on
what wave pattern they are in, until it's all over. Two Elliott wave technicians can
look at a chart and both of them can see two different patterns. This is perhaps
why Gann did not get into the complex reading of waves. He did, however,
understand simple waves and how to read and use them with his time and price
points. This chapter explains a practical way to use the Elliott Wave Theory in
conjunction with other Gann time and price points. About 50% of the Elliott Wave
techniques are simple and clear and the other 50% are complex, too difficult and
subject to differing interpretation among Elliott wave technicians. For the Gann
trader, the best approach is to use the 50% that are simple and clear. Elliott
waves should be a necessary part of your overall trading method. Gann time and
price points tell you where the market has been and were it is going. The Elliott
Wave Theory tells you where you are on the road map. It can be used very nicely
in conjunction with the other Gann time and price points. The Elliott Wave Theory
used alone, will get traders into big trouble as they are constantly relabeling
waves to fit the pattern that they currently see. The Elliott wave approach we
recommend will work most of the time in conjunction with other Gann rules and
help to put the whole puzzle together as to where you are in the overall trading
structure of the market.

Using Gann Ratios
There are actually two types of ratios that can be used with the waves. They can
be Fibonacci or Gann ratios. You should check the market you are trading in to
determine which of the two types of ratios the market is best working with. The
following is a listing of the differences in the ratios. Gann ratios are determined
by basically dividing full numbers into halves and thirds as far down as you need
to. Here are the ratios used: Divide the number by 2 or 4 or 8 or 16 and divide by
3 or 6 or 12. By doing this we get the following as compared to the Fibonacci
ratios used by most Elliott wave traders:

Basic Ratio Differences
Gann .25 - .33 - .50 - .66 - .75 - 1.00 - 1.25 - 1.33 etc.
Fibonacci .382 - .618 - 1.00 - 1.382 - 1.50 - 1.618 etc.

As you can see the Gann ratios are very similar to the Fibonacci ratios used
by Elliott wave traders.

Two Basic Waves
Elliott waves can be classified into two basic parts (See Exhibit 7.1 in chapter 7).
1) The impulse pattern that is in the main direction of the market that ends at a
Gann time and price level
2) The corrective pattern that the market will retrace to some important Gann
time and price point.

The Impulse Pattern
Impulse patterns consist of usually five waves in the main direction of the market.
That main direction of the market can be either up or down.

1) The first wave of an impulse move is usually not very strong as traders are
unsure of where they are in the market.

2) After the first wave runs up to the top of wave 1, it will pull back usually very
quickly and violently and test the bottom and hold without making a new low. This
is wave 2. Traders are still bearish and are short and thinking the market is still
going lower. Some may even add to their shorts. Most short traders will now
have their stops above wave 1.

3)The beginning rally of wave 3 is usually very slow and will finally make it up to
the top of wave 1. Traders are still bearish and many have added to their short
positions. There are a large amount of stops above wave 1. The rally of wave 3
continues and pushes above wave 1 where there are a tremendous number of
stops. When these stops are hit the market explodes and many times gaps up
because of order imbalances. The gaps are a main indication that you are in
wave 3. The volume increases and many other traders get on the bandwagon
and start to buy. Traders that were long at the bottom start to add to positions.
Traders that were short that got stopped out decide that market is also going
higher and they take long positions. At this time, the majority of traders are now
long and the market is in a main trend up. Wave 3 is always longer than at least
one of the waves 1 or 2 and it can never be the shortest wave of the three.

4) Finally the buying of wave 3 starts to subside and profit taking starts to come
in. Traders who were long at the bottom decide to take profits, or they might put
in close stops to protect their profits. This causes a general orderly pull back
which is wave 4. Notice the differences between the wave 2 pull back and wave
4 pull back. Wave 2 was fast and violent and wave 4 was orderly. Gann knew
what wave the market was in, because of the wave's characteristics. Most
traders are still bullish in wave 4 and many take this opportunity to add to their
positions and many that missed the entire move, decide to enter the market in
wave 4. Wave 4 should never come down under the peak of wave 1 in cash
markets, but it can come down 10 - 20% under wave 1 in futures markets,
because of carrying and storage charges.5) The market now starts up in its wave
5. It does not have the power that wave 3 had because of the stop buying and
new initial longs being taken. When the market hits the top of wave 3, it usually
goes through, but not with a lot of enthusiasm. The rally is very lackluster. The
prices make a new high and that is the top of wave 5 and the market tops out.

Correction Patterns
Correction patterns usually consist of three waves. They come in two different
categories: the simple correction and the complex correction. If wave 2 is a
simple correction then expect wave 4 to be a complex correction. If wave 4 is a
simple correction then expect wave 2 to be a complex correction.

The Simple Correction
The simple correction that which has only one pattern which is the zigzag
correction. This is an a, b, c correction. Wave b will correct ½ - ¾ of wave a. If it
exceeds that correction then it is not a simple correction, but a complex
correction. Wave a will always have a 5 wave pattern in the direction of the
correction. Wave c will go below wave a. Wave c will be equal to wave a or 1.5 to
2.5 times of wave a. The way to know if you are in a zigzag correction is to
determine if wave a has a five wave pattern.

The Complex Correction
The complex pattern consists of three different patterns:

a) The flat correction where each wave is equal in length

b) The irregular correction where wave b makes new high then drops to the
beginning of wave a or below it. Wave b equals 1.125 - 1.25 of wave a. Wave c
equals 1.5 - 2.5 of wave a.

c) The triangle is where there are 5 subwaves of a, b, c, d, and e in the
correction. Triangles are usually associated with wave

4. When the market breaks out of the triangle, it usually does it with a big thrust
in the same direction as wave three.
Using Wave Measurements is complete explained in the course manual. Please
go over it carefully.
Angle Projection is also extremely important. It is also completely explained in
the course manual. Please study it carefully.
Using Extreme Highs and Lows
It is important that you use the extreme highs and lows in calculating all moves.
Do not use closes as many Elliott wave technicians do. Gann always used the
exact extreme high or low to calculate the correct move.

ELLIOTT Wave Example - Dec 91 Corn (See Chapter 7 in the manual) Examine
this chart in carefully. Many of Gann's techniques are explained in the manual.

Chapter 6 answers

1) We can use three different basic angles to determine time and price within the
markets: the vertical, the horizontal and the diagonal line.

2) In using mathematics for trading the markets, it is important to know that the
market can go only two directions. It can go up or down or it can just move
sideways.

3) One technique is using natural fixed numbers. These are the numbers that can
be divided into the circle of 360 degrees. These are: 9, 18, 27, 36, 45, 72, 90,
120, 180, 270 and 360.

4) We can use three different basic angles to determine time and price within the
markets: the vertical, the horizontal and the diagonal line.

5) The Gann wheel or the Square of 9 is constructed from the square, the circle
and the triangle.

6) Did you know that geometric angles will hold only when the 5th, 3rd or C wave
of a market is complete.

7) Geometric angles are used to measure time and price movements.

8) The market can be clocked in time in two different ways. One way is using
trading days and the other is using calendar days.

(c) Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 8

The Time Factor
Gann said that time is the most important factor.


The most important factor in determining market movements is time. Time tells
the trader when the market stops its trend and goes the other direction. If you
know the time changes in the markets, your chances of success will be increased
many times.

All time is determined from the circle of 360 degrees:

Divide the circle by 4 parts and you get:

          360

          270

          180

          90

You can break these numbers down even further:

          45

          22.5

          11.25

Divide the circle by 3 parts and you get:

          360

          240

          120

You can break these numbers down even further:
         60

         30

         15

         7

         3.5

3 Times the odd and even numbers and doubling them is very important. Take 3
x 3 (the odd low number) and double them to get the following important
numbers:

         9

         18

         36

         72

         144

         288

Take 3 x 4 (the even low number) and double them to get the following important
numbers:

         12

         24

         48

         96

         192

The number 9 is very important as it is the number that ends your count before
you start over, see the following:

         123456789

         add 1 to get the next set
           10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19

The number 7 is also very important. Many counts start over after the number 7.
Also the following multiples of the number 7 are important:

           7

           14

           21

           28

           35

           42

           49 very important



From your Gann Master's Course book you need to study:

When minor time trend changes occur.

When intermediate time trend changes occur.

When long term time trend changes occur.

Built up forces.

Harmonics and monthly moves.

Prices move faster the higher they go and changes in trend.

Lost motion when the market is in the strongest and weakest position.

Divisions of three, five and seven.

Overbalancing of time and space movements and the square of space and time
and its duration.

The December corn example viewing the cycles and the time changes.

(c) Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 9

Support & Resistance

Markets move between support and resistance.
In trading the markets, it is very important to know the important force of both
support and resistance. Every top or bottom in the market has some relation to
some prior top or bottom and it is mathematically based on that prior top or
bottom. By using trend lines and time cycles with support and resistance levels,
you can do much better in trading and know where to put your stop loss orders.

Range
Take the high price and the low price and divide it by odd and even or 3 or 4. If
you want to go down another degree divide it by 6 or 8 or even 12 or 16 levels.
When the market approaches these levels of support or resistance and is starting
to show a possible change of trend, it is a place to either buy or sell. The halfway
points are always the most important. The market will many times hold at these
levels for 3, 5 or 7 days, 3, 5 or 7 weeks or 3, 5 or 7 months and give you a
chance to buy or sell it. It depends on if the trend is minor, intermediate or major.

Read this chapter very carefully to learn how the market tops or bottoms. Look
carefully at Exhibit 9.1 and 9.2. Learn also what happens when a market reaches
the highest price ever. Learn what happens when a market reaches the lowest
price ever.

If that market ever breaks into all time lows it usually is a good idea to short the
market and go with the weak trend. The market is in its weakest position when it
is making new lows. Everyone that is long the market has a loss and is anxious
to get rid of their position when ever the market rallies. Many times the market
does not rally when it makes new lows, it just goes lower. Many longs panic and
get out of the market and the prices even go lower.

Read this chapter very carefully to see what happens when the market
penetrates and resistance level. Also read and understand the importance of
studying past action of support and resistance level to determine what it will go in
the future and the importance of all time highs and lows.

Opens/Closes
Opens and closes are important to determine support and resistance levels. In
strong bull markets there are never more than 2 days, weeks, months prices
closing lower than the open. The market comes back to close higher than the
open and continues its trend. In bear markets there will never be more than 2
days, weeks, months prices closing higher than the open. The market will usually
close lower than the open to continue its trend. Watch the opens and closes
especially near important support and resistance areas.

Learn in this chapter how January 3, 5, 7 can affect the direction of the market
the rest of the year. Also study in this chapter about the years of extreme highs
or lows and its importance.

Long Sideways Movements
Watch these time periods carefully. The market is usually just marking time while
it squares out some prior top or bottom. When the market breaks out of this
range, it usually is a major change of trend.

Study the Dec Corn (example) Support and Resistance Levels
In Exhibit 9.3. It explains a lot of Gann's timing.

All Time High
In all markets you should find the all time high and divide it either by odd 3 or
even 2 or 4 to get important support and resistance areas.

All Time Low
You should also multiply the all time low by either odd 3 or even 2 or 4 to get
important support and resistance areas.

Angles
Support and resistance lines and halfway points can often be used to draw Gann
angles. If you have an important high or low you can put your Square of 90
overlay on a high or low and move it up or down to the various support and
resistance line. You will be surprised how the Gann angle lines then hit. See the
45 degree angle that was drawn on March 28. When it broke, the market took a
large drop into July.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 10

Support & Resistance

In his last years, W. D. Gann said that one of his most important discoveries was
the time and price overlay. By using it you could save enormous time in doing
your calculations for determining the trend of the market. This chapter explores
this most important tool.

When W.D. Gann discovered the important tool of the time and price overlay, we
did not have computers. All charts were done by hand. It was very difficult to
make a nice long term chart that you could effectively use overlays on. Today we
have programs such as GannTrader and Chart Quick. Both of these programs
produce excellent precision paper charts which can be used nicely with overlays.

By studying and learning how to apply time and price overlays to the various
markets one can forecast market price and time swings long into the future. It is
necessary to obtain long term historical market data such as in the form of Gann
style charts which would include the open, high, low and close of the market.
This should be on a daily, weekly, monthly and yearly basis. This information can
be obtained from commodity year books, or any of the many historical data
services. It is important that the data be linked together correctly. The most
effective format of data is the Gann style which links data together from year to
year. This means that December 1992 corn would be linked to December 1993
corn and December 1994 corn would be linked to the December 1993 corn on a
continuous basis. Nearby continuities charts link the nearest futures contracts
together. This provides a chart similar to the cash markets, but is not as effective
in using the overlays. The cash markets and stocks are do not need any linking
method. They both work very nicely with overlays.

Types of Overlays
There are two kinds of time and price overlays one can construct to indicate
resistance points in the markets. They are the permanent and the variable type.
They can be used separately or together to indicate time and price resistance
points. These overlays help one understand why markets move the way they do.
The time and price resistance points formed from these overlays are permanent
and do not change. You will learn through trial and error which permanent
overlays should be applied to which stock or commodity.
The Vibration Number
Every stock or commodity has its own vibration number and that is what usually
sets the square it works in. Learn how to find the vibration number in this chapter.

Also see this chapter for the highs and lows of commodities from the Chicago
Board of Trader.

Natural Resistance Levels
Permanent time and price overlays are based on divisions of the circle. They can
be applied to the measurement of both time and price. See in your printed course
a list of the resistance levels based on the circle.

Overlays can be created based on the above numbers. Some traders have the
entire set of overlays made up. They overlay each one on top of prices to find the
one that best fits. Some times more than one overlay works. So it maybe
necessary to use 2 - 3 overlays to guide you to the price trend.

This chapter also lists in the printed version the most popular overlays which are
based on the above circle numbers. Study these carefully and make them up
with clear plastic material and permanent market pens for plastic.

The basic square is drawn by dividing a square from all corners and sides into
equal divisions. The corners are divided by odd number angles 3, 5, 7, 9 etc.
This is because time is based on odd numbers The sides are divided by even
numbers of 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64 etc. This chapter explains these squares
completely. Study it carefully.

Permanent Time and Price Overlays
Most permanent time and price overlays are based upon the numbers 1 to 9, but
more specifically on the number 9 which is the number that represents the end of
the number series upon which all numbers are based upon.

Variable Time and Price Overlays
Variable time and price overlays are developed around major tops and bottoms
for a particular commodity or stock. Variable time and price overlays can be used
together with permanent time and price overlays for time and price resistance
levels and movement for a particular commodity or stock. You should study these
overlays carefully and learn how the resistance and support point act on them at
different levels. They are explained in the printed version of this chapter.

Also study in this chapter how to setup Variable Low and High Squares as well
as Range Squares.

Also learn how to combining squares for resistance points and learn about odd
and even squares and halfway points.

Chart Scales
To make plastic transparency overlays use Exhibit 10.2 illustrated in this chapter.
The pattern is in the scale of 12 x 12 to the inch and was created by the Quick
Chart software program. If you use different grid paper or a chart service using
another scale, you will have to modify them to adjust for the change of scale.
Always try to use graph papers with square grid and avoid rectangular grid. It is
advisable to use either Quick Chart or GannTrader to produce the charts for
overlays because they save a lot of time and they are more accurate.

You will find it necessary to obtain construction materials to create the various
overlays you will require. These can usually be obtained at a local art or business
supplies store.

The Importance of Charts
It is important again to stress that the bar charts you set up must be done
according to time and price guidelines.

Important Future Months
The important future months should be watched for key signals. A good set of
charts should include the key months of future contracts of the year in commodity
future contracts. For example, in most commodities the 12th and 6th positions of
the cycle of the year are important. These are December and June. The next
important commodities are the 3rd and 9th positions which are March and
October.

Scale
The scale is very important. The correct scale on a chart can be determined by
how the overlays fit it. The 1 x 1 angle should usually hit the 50% reaction
exactly.

Time Increments
The time increments are important. When trading correctly, you should have
daily, weekly, monthly and yearly charts. If possible the chart should go back to
the beginning of the contract. If that is not possible then you should at least have
the all time high or low on the chart. Weekly charts are the most useful for long
range trading.

Time and Price Labels
The calendar should be correctly labeled at the bottom of the chart indicating
year, month and day. The price should be correctly labeled on the side with price
divisions related to circle numbers if possible. Price divisions are the heavy
horizontal guide lines on a chart.
Update Space
It is very important to have the necessary update space on your chart so you can
do long range forecasting. On a daily chart the update space should go out 1
year. On the weekly chart the update space should go out for 2 years and on a
monthly chart the update space should go out for 5 - 10 years.

Time Frames
Man has learned to measure time with calendar periods. The larger the calendar
period, the more important it is. Different time periods should be used to get the
trend of the market. You should always know what direction each of the time
periods is in. It will make you a much more effective trader. Watch closely for a
change of trend in each time frame and trade accordingly. In order of importance
the following are calendar periods most used:

Learn which are the important time frames in this chapter.

How to Use the Plastic Square Overlays in this chapter. Study this carefully.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 11

Table Charts
The Secret Behind Price Moves

Part 1 of Lesson 11

This chapter covers the important Master Table Charts. We will cover the 2nd
part of this chapter next week. You were sent a disk in your course that contains
most of Gann's Master Charts in electronic format. You need the program
Microsoft Excel to effectively use this disk. This Excel template will save you
hours and hours of time. Gann had to construct these charts by hand. With this
disk installed in your computer you have them available in your computer and
you can pull them up with just a touch of a button.

These table charts will help you to predict time and price chart movements.
Interpretation of the charts is extremely important. This takes much skill and
experience. The most effective way for you to learn how these table charts work
is to use them and develop expertise in using them. It takes time and hard work,
but you will eventually get a feel of how they work with the markets.

What is a table chart? It is a basically a mathematical sequence of numbers
presented in various forms of design to aid the technician in forecasting both time
and price movements in stock and futures markets.

In this part of the lesson, I will explain fixed table charts that are based on natural
numbers. Those are the numbers that divide the circle. These table charts give
you natural support and resistance points. Every stock or future has its own
number that it works in. I have found that it sometimes works in more that one
number at a time. This is because there are many markets that have more than
one cycle affecting them.

The natural squares are the square of 3, 4, 6, 9, 12, 19, 20, 24, 27, 36, 52 and
90. These squares are on your Excel template that came with the course.

I am now going to illustrate how the squares work. I have a chart of July 99
Soybeans. I have placed the chart below. Double click the chart to enlarge it. I
have written the price of every high and low on the swings of the market. See the
blue numbers.




July 99 Soybeans


Now I am going to show you the Table Chart of 27. See below.




Table Chart of 27

I have placed a yellow square over every high and low number that the chart
made. Notice that they are all at the top, bottom or middle of the chart. This
illustrates that July 99 Soybeans is working the in square of 27 according to
price.

Now let's look at July Soybeans again. This time I am going to show you the days
between highs and lows.



July 99 Soybeans

Notice the number I have placed between the highs an lows. See how these
numbers lines up with the following table chart of 6. By using this you can get an
idea of approximately where the time of a move would stop.



Table Chart of 6

In the W.D. Gann Commodity course, he illustrated the NEW York Stock
Exchange Permanent Chart pictured below. He used it to find the swings in this
index. It was merely the chart of 20.



NYSE Chart

The chart still works in today's New York Stock Exchange Market.

Send and questions about this chapter to: Chapter11@tradersworld.com
Part 2 of Lesson 11

The Square of 19 Chart
Exhibit 11.5 in the printed course, shows the square of 19 chart which is a very
important table which is 19 up and 19 over. This square is often called the square
of the circle because it proves the circle. The square of 19 x 19 ends at 361
which is just one over the 360 degrees in the circle. This illustration shows that
when we reach the number 181 we are crossing the center and on the other side
of the 360 degree circle. It is important to know that many price movements end
with the square of 19.

The Square of 20 Chart
In Exhibit 11.6 in the printed course shows the number 20 which represents the
number of trading days in the normal month, and the 18th division of the circle is
quite important for measuring both time and price. This is the chart Gann used
for the New York Stock Exchange. He called it his NYSE Permanent Chart.

The Square of 27 Chart
Exhibit 11.8 in the printed course shows the square of 27 chart 27 up and 27
over which ends at 729 is close to 720 or 2 times the circle. Dividing each
quarterly square then gives 15.19 years and the halfway point is 7.59 years close
to the 7 1/2 year cycle.

The Square of 36 Chart
In exhibit 11.11in the printed course, shows the square of 36 chart 36 up and 36
over which ends at 1296 is important for measuring all time and price movements
and resistance points.

The Square of 52 Chart
The square of 52 chart which is 52 up and 52 across is a very important square
representing the 52 weeks in a year.

The Square of 90 Chart
The square of 90 chart which is 90 up and 90 across which ends at 8100 is an
important square. The number 90 is one quarter of the circle and adds up to the
important number 9.

Variable Low Squares
Squares can be worked up for specific stocks and commodities based on their
contract low. For example on December 28, 1932 March wheat had a low at 43
cents per bushel. The square or balancing of the price is 43 days, 43 weeks, 43
months. (See Exhibit 11.10 in the printed course)
Setting up Contract high Squares
Besides using lows to set up squares one can also use contract highs. Use the
all time high of a particular contract for its balancing square.

Setting Up Contract Range Squares
Besides using contract highs and lows, contract ranges can also be used to set
up balancing squares. March Wheat had an all time high of 6.45 and an all time
low of .43. The difference between the two is 6.02. Therefore a balancing square
of .70 (5.59 / 8 = .6988) per bushel can be set up to indicate resistance points.

Combining Squares for Resistance Points
It is important to combine the natural squares, especially the square of 9 and 12
with the contract high, low and range squares to indicate time and price
resistance points for each stock or commodity.

Low/ High Number Squares /Natural Time Squares
It is possible to use contract low prices to determine intra cycle resistance points
within a time period. For example March Wheat had a low on December 28, 1932
at 43 cents per bushel. A square of 12 with an intra cycle of 43 can be set up to
determine the monthly future cycle points. See this section in the printed course
for details.

Tritable Charts
The triangle table charts illustrated in this chapter were put in Gann's course, but
were not explained. We have programmed the Excel spread sheet template to do
these charts also.

Natural Time Square Intervals and Intra Cycles
Intra cycle contract high and low points can be set up within all natural time
squares. Squares can be set up on the smallest interval 1/4 hourly points up to
larger intervals of monthly points.

Natural Resistance Levels
Natural resistance levels are based upon natural law and can be applied to the
measurement of both time and price. Set up based on the Base Numbers and
Divisions of the Circles listed in the printed chapter.

The Vibration Number
Every stock or commodity will have its own vibration number that it trades by. It
will trade within the square of that number. The number is based on one of
several factors. See the explanation of this in the printed chapter and See Exhibit
11.14 in the printed course.
Numbers Given to Dates of the Periods of the Year
Stocks or commodities that started trading the following dates of the month are
ruled by the numbers indicated. They generally will be strongest during their
dates or the periods of the year indicated.

Numbers given to Days of the Week
The following are vibration numbers given to the days of the week. Stocks or
commodities will be strongest on the day that vibrates their number.

Day Number
Sunday 1, 4
Monday 2, 7
Tuesday 9
Wednesday 5
Thursday 3
Friday 6
Saturday 8

See the example in the printed version of the course on the way to tell whether a
day will be favorable or unfavorable for a stock or commodity. It should be of
great value to anyone who uses it.

Table charts are important for understanding the basis for all movement in the
stock and commodity markets. Most of the theories learned in this chapter can be
transferred to the study of bar charts. Study and apply the principles of this
chapter to trading and you will be rewarded.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 12

Time and Price charts
The markets vibrate around these charts.



This chapter goes into the explanation and use of Gann's master time and price
charts. Perhaps the most interesting of these charts are the odd and even square
charts. The odd chart is commonly known as the square of 9 and the even chart
is known as the square of 4. The square of 9 has the number 1 at the center and
spirals clockwise around the square. The even chart has four numbers in the
center 1, 2, 3, and 4. It spirals counter clockwise around the square. Each of the
chart's parameter is divided into dates and degrees of the year that go counter
clockwise. Each circle of the square of nine ends with an number that squares
out ( 9, 25, 49, 81, 121, 169, 225, 289 etc.). Each circle of the square of 4 ends
with an even number that squares out ( 4, 16, 36, 64, 100, 144, 176, 256 etc.).

Which of the two charts to use depends on the total days in the contract from
beginning to end. You must look up to see when the first day of trade was and
look up the last day of trade. If there is an even number of days in the contract
use the square of 4. If there are an odd number of days in the contract use the
square of 9.




The beginning of the Sq of Four          This is the beginning of the Sq of Nine

The Sq of Four is called the even chart and the Sq of Nine is called the odd
chart.

There are many different ways to use these charts. One useful way is to set the
beginning day of trade at 1 in the center of the square. As the contract trades out
in time, you can see resistance at the completion of each circle in the square.
You can often tell which chart (odd or even) a commodity is following by where it
ends in time. Use calendar days for this timing. The Excel template available to
you has the ability to be configured into either entirely dates, numbers or a
combination of both. That means you can set the center to the beginning data
and price of the contract and easily see all of the resistance dates and prices all
the way out. The center can also be set to a major low or high date of price to
see all of the resistance dates and prices.

By the way the Gann Master Excel template has all of the electronic Gann
Master Charts on it in electronic form. This means that you can change the
center number and have all the numbers change in the entire chart. The following
is available on this Gann Master Excel template:

Fibonacci Projector
Time and Price Projector
Square of Nine
Square of Four
Circle of 12
Circle of 18
Circle of 48
Triangle 1
Triangle 2
Octagon
Hexagon
NYSE Permanent Chart
Table of 3
Table of 6
Table of 9
Table of 12
Table of 19
Table of 24
Table of 27
Table of 36
Table of 52
Table of 90

These are in tab form, which means you just click the tab at the bottom of the
Excel page to pull up the Gann Master chart.
See below:



The following is the Square of Nine taken out to 441.




If you change the center of the chart for example on this Square of Nine chart to
a top or bottom of a move, then you will get an indication of all the projected tops
and bottoms in the market based on the fixed and the cardinal square positions
on the Square of Nine.

Now I am going to use a chart of Soybeans to explain how to use this chart.
I will first change the center of the Square of Nine to 993 which was the low on
the Soybean chart.




You will now see that the horizontal and diagonal lines on the Square of Nine
which I have drawn from the center of 993, give you resistance and support for
the market.

When the market gets through a resistance point, then it becomes a support
point. As Gann mentioned, previous tops become support. It works the same way
on the Square of Nine. Previous resistance points become support points.

Using excel, you can also change this chart into a time chart and make the
bottom the date of the low and you will then see resistance and support on the
way up in the form of dates.

There is so much in this chapter and it is very important. You must learn how to
use the Square of Nine and Square of Four and when to use them. You also
must learn how to use all the other Gann Master charts. You do this by checking
historical data.

This chapter (the printed course) explains how to use the Square of Nine, the
Circle of 18, the Circle of 24, the Circle of 24, the Circle of 24, the Hexagon
Charts. Study them carefully.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 13

Forecasting Time
"Time is the most important factor" This is what the master trader Gann said.


One trader once told me that you can not trade a market unless you know
where it is going. W. D. Gann was able to forecast time cycles with amazing
accuracy. This chapter tells you how he did most of it. W. D. Gann believed that
the future is but a repetition of the past. There are no new things under the sun.
By studying the past one can forecast future cycles of the market.

The following are the master cycles of the market. Study them carefully, they are
the secret to all markets. The printed course explains these cycles in detail.
Study them carefully.

The 120 Year Major Cycle
The 100 Year Major Cycle
The 90 Year Major Cycle
The 80 Year Cycle
The 60 Year Master Cycle
The 49 - 50 Year Cycle
The 40 Year Cycle
The 30 Year Cycle
The 20 Year Cycle
The 15 year Cycle
The 10 Year Cycle
The 8 Year Cycle
The 7 Year Cycle
The 5 Year Cycle
The 2 /12 - 3 1/2 Year Cycle

HARMONICS OF THESE CYCLES
All of these cycles have harmonic years. To fully understand how to get the
harmonic cycles you must study the printed version of this course. The harmonic
cycles allow you to know where the big cycles are occurring.

The 1 Year and Under Cycle
The cycles under one year are all based on the circle. The cycles inside of the
year are the 45, 90, 120, 135, 144, 216, 240, 244, and 270. Study them in the
course. The important cycles are explained.

How to Use the Cycles
The most important thing you can do is to watch how the cycles are working.
Compare the current cycles with those of the past. Go back to each of the cycle
years and compare them to the current ones.

Using Daily Charts for forecasting
Daily price movements give the first change of trend in the markets.

SHIFTS IN CYCLES
There are sometimes shifts in the major cycles several days from anniversary
high or low days. This is caused by progression of time.

Beginnings of time periods (changing of trends)
Watch the first and third week of the beginnings of these important times of the
year.
See the list in the printed course for other important times.

Yearly - Watch the first and third week of January
Semi-Annual - Watch the first and third week of July
Quarterly - Watch the first and third of week of April and October.

You should also divide the year into divisions and watch the first 5 days of each
division for a change of trend.

Comparisons of Years Ending with Same Digit
Go back over the years and overlay all years that end in the same digit.

Reoccurring Cycles
The market normally makes the same amount of moves from it's peaks and
troughs.

Ratios
It is also a good idea to use ratios between the following:

Fibonacci ratios work very nicely. These are the ratios that we have programmed
into the Excel spreadsheet that you got with the printed course. See Exhibit
13.4. in the course. This is a picture of the Excel spread sheet module for wave
forecasting based on those ratios. By inputting three dates in this spread sheet
you can get the top to top or bottom to bottom time calculations. By inputting 2
dates in the spreadsheet you can get bottom to top and top to bottom
calculations of timing points. See exhibit 13.4 and 13.5. in the course book.

.382
.500
.618
1.00
1.382
1.500
1.618
2.000
2.382
2.500
2.618

WAVE STRUCTURE
To be able to understand major cycles of the market, it is necessary to use wave
structure of the market. Exhibit 13.1 in the course book is the basic Elliott wave
pattern which must be understood to do proper cycle analysis.

TIMING BASED ON RATIOS OF WAVE STRUCTURE
Future timing points are based on ratios of prior tops and bottoms in the market.
The Excel spread sheet is set up to calculate many of these ratios which will
save you a lot of time. These ratios of course will be based on calendar days, not
on market days. You will find that you might get away with just using the Excel
spread sheet for these calculations because we have found that in many cases
they both come up with close to the same dates. Study the various time ratios
calculations with the examples in the course book.

USING MINOR TO MAJOR CYCLES
All of these calculations are based on the minor degree of daily chart data. These
will give you only minor calculations of important pivot points.

SAME WAVE PATTERN
The program will calculate future timing points based on Fibonacci ratios from
these tops and bottom.

PROGRAMMED RATIOS
From the number of days between the 1st, 2nd and 3rd or the 2nd and 3rd, the
time sheet calculates ratios forward from the 3rd date. The ratios programmed in
are as follows: See Exhibit 13.4 in the course book.

1) .382
2) .500
3) .618
4) 1.00
5) 1.318
6) 1.500
7) 1.618
8) 2.000
9) 2.382
10) 2.50

NUMBER OF DAYS
The Fibonacci ratios have the difference in days beside the date, so you can
determine if the number of days is significant.

INTRADAY TIMING POINTS
The time sheet can also be adjusted to project intraday timing points down to the
very minute.

USING CIRCLE NUMBERS FROM BEGINNING NUMBERS
The important circle number can also be used to forecast from important tops
and bottoms.

HARMONICS OF BEGINNING NUMBERS
The harmonics of the beginning number can be used to forecast. See the course
book.
square of 9 and 4 for time projection
We have also programmed into the Excel template the square of 9 and the
square of 4 charts. These charts are an electronic marvel! They are 10 times
better than any other Gann wheel, because you can change the center number
to a beginning number or date for time and price projection. For time that number
should be set a beginning date of a contract or of a minor, intermediate or major
bottom. See Exhibit 13.6 in the course book.

USING THE CENTER WITH BEGINNING NUMBERS
The square of 4 should be used with a contact with an even number of days and
the square of 9 should be used with a contract with an odd number of days.
Experiment of with both squares to see which one is hitting the numbers better.
For time set the center number to the beginning date of the contract. You will find
resistance to advance at the end of each circle and at the Cardinal and Fixed
Cross points.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 14
Forecasting Price
To be successful in trading you must know where price is going.
Price forecasting is one of the most difficult Gann techniques. In this chapter we
will go into the techniques that are available. Many of the techniques are
different, but in the end they come out to the same price projection.

Table Charts
One of the easiest ways of forecasting price is to the table chart. We have all the
basic number formats programmed into the Excel template. In the Gann Masters
printed course. These table charts work with the internal time structure of the
market. See Exhibits 11.1, 11.2, 11.3, 11.4, 11.5, 11.6, 11.7, 11.8, 11.9, 11.10
and 11.11 (in the printed Gann Master's Course).

Besides changing the number 1 position of the table chart to a bottom of a
contract it can be left at 1. The resulting top, bottom and midpoints of the table
chart are natural resistance points. For example using the table chart of 20 which
is Gann's NYSE Permanent Table Chart (in the printed Gann Master's Course)
every 20 points up is a natural resistance and support point of price. This is the
number vibration the NYSE moves in.

Circle Charts
The circle charts programmed into the Excel template have an amazing ability to
forecast price. They work in the same way the square table charts do, except that
instead of price going up and down, price spirals around a circle. See Exhibits
12.3, 12.4 and 12.5. (in the printed Gann Maser's course).

Hexagon Chart
The hexagon spiral is based on the same principals of the square of nine. The
charts start with the number 1 at the center and spirals around. See Exhibit 12.6.
(in the printed Gann Maser's course).

Octagon Chart
The Octagon spiral is also based on the same principal of the square of nine.
The chart starts with the number 1 at the center and spirals around the higher
numbers. The chart has 8 points extending outward instead of the 6 points of the
hexagon chart.
TriTable 1 & 2 Charts
The tritable charts 1 and 2 are another form of table chart which can be used to
forecast price resistance and support levels. The tritable 1 chart has the number
1 at the bottom - this is the odd chart. The triable chart 2 has the numbers 1 and
2 at the bottom this is the even chart. ( See Exhibits 12.12 and 12.13. in the
printed Gann Master's Course).

Square of 9
The square of nine has become a very popular chart. It can be used in many
different ways to forecast price. See Exhibit 12.1 in the printed Gann Maser's
Course).

Beginning Price or Contract Low
The first way this chart can be used is the set the center number 1 at either the
beginning price of the contract or a the contact low.

Natural Numbers
The second way to use this chart is to leave the center number as 1 and use the
numbers at the end of each circle as natural resistance numbers.

Gann Wheel
The third way to use this chart is to use the 360 degrees and dates around the
outside and a plastic overlay (see Exhibit 12.8 in the printed Gann Masters
Course) divided into the angles of 90, 120, 144, 180, 214, 240 and 270 degrees.

If rallies stop exactly on 90 degree lines and go back down, the main trend is
down. If declines stop exactly on 90 degree lines and go back up the main trend
is up.

If you keep the 0 point of the overlay on March 21 and look at the prices the
angles of the plastic overlay hit, you will find that sometimes the dates on the
outside of the wheel hits the same price that an angle is on at the same time.
This is called time aspecting price. This is natural time and price resistance. You
always check this particular use of the wheel, as it happens too many times to be
coincidence. These are very strong points of support and resistance.

Square of 4
The square of 4 can be used exactly as the square of 9. In all aspects it is
identical except that it is an even square instead of an odd square. I

Multiple Price Projections
While the square of 9 and 4 are excellent for giving resistance at the ends of
natural circles which represent squares of the center, it is difficult to use these
square with very many past lows and highs. One disadvantage also of the square
of 9 and 4 is that they are designed for expanding waves and not for contracting
waves. Contracting waves are when prices are coming down. Both the square of
9 and 4 are like a shell starting small at the center and getting bigger as prices
get higher. To overcome these problems a sheet was designed to give multiple
price projections and to allow for both expanding and contracting waves. This
sheet also allows for Fibonacci price projections with counts of actual days. This
is one of the most valuable sheets in the Excel template. Here is how the sheet
works.

It allows for three prices to be placed in the spreadsheet on each row: 1st price,
2nd price and 3rd price. There are 8 rows down so it gives you a potential of 24
points to use for forecasting forward. It is very easy to add rows to this
spreadsheet using the copy and paste routine, so you could actually add as
many points as you wished. In each of these slots, you place past highs and lows
of historical data. We have found it an excellent tool to place all the highs and
lows of Elliott wave in this spreadsheet. Try to keep the same degree. For
example make up one 8 row for the major degree which is a monthly chart going
back 15-30 years. Make up another 8 rows for the intermediate degree which is
weekly chart going back for 5 - 10 years. Then you should make up another 8
rows for the minor degree which is a daily chart going back 3 - 5 years. In this
module also allows for variable lengths in projections. We have it programmed
for the wheel numbers of 45, 90, 120, 144, 180, 216, 240 and 270. These can be
changed to other counts. Excel will only do daily price projections, so for weekly
and monthly, you will have to change these settings to multiples of the daily
counts. For weekly projections you might put in much larger counts for example
put in the following 45 x 5 = 225 days, 90 x 5 = 450 days, 120 x 5 = 600 and so
on. For monthly counts you would put in 45 x 30 = 1350 days, 90 x 30 = 1800
days, 120 x 30 = 3600 days and so on.

The counts forward give you important probably future cycle points. The bigger
the degree, the more important the cycle is. The biggest advantage of this
module is that you can match up several futures dates that are within 3 days of
each other. The more match ups you get the more important the cycle is. When
you get a major, intermediate and a minor degree to match up to the exact date,
you have a very important cycle.

This module can also be used to forecast forward price and time of a bottom or
top. You set the 1st price to a major bottom, for example 225 in March 95 Corn.
Now set the module to forecast forward the following: 225 hours, 225 days, 225
weeks, 225 months. Therefore you would set it to the following days: 225/24 =
9.375, 225 x 1 = 225, 225 x 5 = 1125, 225 x 30 = 6750 days. When the points in
time are reached check the price and if it is a multiple, harmonic or Fibonacci
ratio of the bottom price, then it is a significant point. If the difference from that
price and the bottom is a Gann circle number, then it is significant.
FIBONACCI PRICE FORECASTING

This module also has an important function of forecasting Fibonacci price points.
This is how it works. If you want to forecast out the Fibonacci ratio in price of an
A, B, C wave you would put in A as the 1st price, B as the 2nd price and C as the
3rd price. From the 3rd price the module will forecast forward a predetermine
ratio of the C and (B - A). The Fibonacci ratios are .382, .500. .618, 1.000, 1.382,
1.5000, 1.618, 2.000, 2.382, 2.50 and 2.618. The module will also give you the
difference in price between (B - A) and C. If it is a perfect circle number for
example 45, 90. 120, 144 etc., then it price has more validity. If you make the 1st
price equal to the 2nd price then you would be getting ratios between only the
2nd and 3rd prices. You would also be getting the difference in price between
them. The more cluster of prices that match up in the 3 price projections the
more it is a confirmation of an important future pivot point. These Fibonacci ratio
numbers are variable, so you can change them to specialized numbers. ( See
Exhibit 14.1 and 14.2 in the printed Gann Masters Course).

PATTERN
One of the secrets of price forecasting is pattern formation. Knowing where you
are in the pattern formation. The secret is that virtually all markets continually
form the same price patterns If you know where you are in this pattern formation
then you know everything you need to know to make big money in the markets.
(See Exhibit 14.6 in the printed Gann Masters Course).

The square of 9 and 4 chart can also help you get an idea of the end of every
wave. (See Exhibit 12.1 and 12.2 in the printed Gann Masters Course)

ABC Fibonacci Price Projecting
If you want to know how strong the market is and where a wave is going and
where to take profits use the ABC ratio method. We have set up such a module
in the Excel spread sheet for this purpose. (See Exhibit 14.3 in the printed Gann
Master Course)

PROJECTING FROM SEVERAL SINGLE POINTS
One of the best methods of forecasting is to forecast time from a set of single
points such as highs and lows. The Excel spread sheet can be used for this also.
See Exhibit 14.5. TIMING FROM DOUBLE OR TRIPLE POINTS in the printed
Gann Masters Course).

USING THE MASTER OVERLAYS
The master overlays should be used to forecast price based on market days. You
should create the following overlays on clear plastic in the scale of your charts.
45, 52, 72, 90, 120, 144, 216, 240, 270, and 360. They should be used in two
different ways. One is to place them on highs and low. This is using it the
variable way. From every top or bottom the market will move 45, 52, 72, 90, 120,
144, 216, 240, 270 and 360 points.

The squares can also be used the fixed way in that on every major bottom you
could place the square at 0 point and project upward for price projections.

The market will usually work in one of the natural squares of 45, 52, 90, 120,
144, 216, 240, 270 and 360. You must experiment to see which square it is
working it.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 15

EXCEL SPREAD SHEET
A necessity for time and price analysis


The Excel Spreadsheet is an excellent piece of software, necessary for the
forecasting of both time and price using Gann analysis. This chapter explains
how to use the program and the template that we have included in this course.
Exhibit 15.1 is the picture of the Excel spread sheet that you get on your screen.

INSTALLING THE PROGRAM
It is necessary that you have at least a 486 IBM compatible computer with at
least 4 MB of RAM and at least a 200 MB hard disk drive to use this program.
You also need Microsoft Windows 3.0 or higher. It is suggested that the video
card you use should be accelerated for windows programs with a resolution of at
least 1024 x 768. It is also suggested that you use a 17" - 21" flat screen
computer monitor with horizontal and vertical controls.

To install the program just insert the number 1 program disk into your disk drive.
From the windows run menu access drive a and run setup. Follow the
instructions and it will lead you through the setup of 5 installation disks.

When installation is complete you are now ready to install the Gann template into
the program. Insert the Gann template disk in drive a. Pull up the Excel file menu.
On it you will see 1 A:\GANN.XLS. Click this with the mouse and it will load the
template into the Excel spreadsheet. Exhibit 15.1 will appear on your screen.

The Excel spread sheet is multi-tasking capable. That means you can run your
windows chart program such as SuperCharts, TradeStation, or MetaStock or any
other program and the Excel spread sheet at the same time. To switch between
the two programs you just press CTRL and ESC at the same time. This takes
you to a task list. From this you will see Excel and SuperCharts or any other
program.. You can switch between the programs with the click of the mouse. This
allows you to use both programs at the same time which is desirable for Multi-
tasking runs quicker if you have at least 64 MB of RAM in your computer.

The spread sheet is graphically intensive. That is what makes it such a nice
program for Gann time and price analysis. At the bottom of the screen, you can
see OCT, HEX, NYSE PERM, TBL3, TBL 6, TBL 9, TBL12, TBL19, TBL20,
TBL24, TBL27. These are the sheets that are programmed into the template.
You can scroll back and forth as there are even more sheets programmed than
you can't see. In addition to those in view, there are the TBL36, TBL 52, TBL 43,
TBL 67, TBL 90, PRICE PROJ, TIME PROJ, OVERLAYS, SQ9, SQ4, FIB PROJ,
CIR18, CIR24, CIR12, TRI-1 AND TRI-2 charts. You can instantly bring up any of
the charts with a click of the mouse.

Table chart base cell number 1
All of the table charts have a base of 1 which can be changed to any number. All
other cells in the spread sheet have a formula in their squares which changes
automatically when you change the number 1 cell. The number 1 cell can be
changed to the contract beginning price or a low contact price. All the other cells
then increase by a factor of 1.

PROJECTION CHARTS WHITE SQUARES
The three projection charts which includes the PRICE PROJ, TIME PROJ AND
FIB PROJ have programmed cells which should not be disturbed. The colored
cells are programmed and the white cells are the only ones you can input
numbers into.

Below is a copy of the Circle of 18 on the Excel Template.
Study this chapter very carefully in your course book. If you have any questions
just e-mail us at gannmasters@tradersworld.com

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
Chapter 16

% swing charts
Swings charts tell you the direction of the market.

One of Gann's favorite tools was his swing charts. The rules for trading his
swing charts are very simple. You can use swing charts to give you the trend of
the market in the different degrees such as daily, weekly and monthly.

Gann's trend line indicator was a 1 day swing chart. In a rising market he keep
moving his trend line up until the low of the prior day was broken. When that
point was broken, he moved his trend line down until the high of the prior day
was broken. The principal of his 3 day swing chart is the same. Keep moving the
trend line up on a rising market until the low of the last 3 days is broken. When
that low is broken move the trend line down until the high of the last three days
is broken.

Gann used the 3 day swing chart to tell the main trend of the market and the 1
day swing chart for the short term. The two can be combined to make a good
trading system, in that when the 3 day swing chart goes long use the 1 day
swing chart to enter the market.

Swing charts can also be based on price instead of time. When the low of the
prior day is broken by say 2 cents in corn the trend line turns down. The trend
line stays down until the market reverses up over the prior days high by 2 cents.

To increase the effectiveness of swing charts you can also use both time and
price in the formula.

Swing charts are effective for seeing a change of price trend both on the short
term and the main trend.

Swing charts should be watched very carefully with the concept of
overbalancing prior time and price points.

Time and price swing charts have many problems. They often give bad signals
to the trader. Using past historical data our research has found that using price
correction is not as effective as time calculation. Time, as Gann said is the most
important factor.
Percentage retracements of the last swing has proven to be more effective than
price retracements.

Another way to check the market's strength is to do a check of the markets price
and time swings in the direction of the main trend of the market.

To check the strength of the market's strength, you can also figure the market's
percentage swing of the last two moves.

Many times when a swing chart is broken, it also gives another indication of a
change of trend, such as a reversal day. This was one of Gann's favorite
signals. There are three basic reversal days: A gap up and reverse day, a hook
reversal and a key reversal.
So you can monitor both retracements and advances for their swing properties
we have programmed a spread sheet module for this purpose. (See Exhibit 16.1
in the printed GannMasters Course.

With this spread sheet template you can put in the high and low of swings as the
market is moving up.

When the market advances to a new high, the spread sheet will calculate the
points move and the percentage of the move. This gives you an indication of the
strength of the market. From this you can tell the strength of the market. This
tells you that momentum is increasing or declining.

A swing chart can be set up based on the information coming from our spread
sheet module. For example, if the price breaks under the prior 3 day low by 2
cents, if the market exceeds a 3 day reaction, if the market reacts more than
20% of the last move up, then start moving the trend line down.

This spread sheet can also be used effectively to spot when there is an
overbalance of time, price and percent. When all three confirm an overbalance
of time, price and percentage there is a major change of direction.

(c)2000 Halliker's, Inc.
CHAPTER 17
Gaps
Gaps help to tell the future of market activity.

Gaps are the result of activity which causes prices to jump beyond the past
days activity (the high or low of the last day) leaving an open gap. The open
gap is usually caused by big buy or sell orders that result from a prior days
government report on the market. It could also be caused by other factors such
as overnight news from the overseas markets, weather reports and so on.
Gaps were one of Gann's most important tools for reading the market.

Most gaps are ordinary in that they have no particular significance. They
usually occur in the regular trading range of the market and are usually closed
within a brief period of time.

Breakaway gaps are the gaps that breakout from a sideways trading range.
These gaps are never filled and usually result in a fast move in the main trend
of the market.

Measuring gaps usually occur in an accelerated trend of the market. The
market is usually moving up or down with high volume. When these gaps
occur, the market is very powerful and reactions against the main trend are
almost nil. These gaps often occur in the fast third or fifth waves of the market.
They many times become support or resistance areas. Most of the time these
gaps can measure where the market is going. They are usually midway gaps.
See Exhibit 17.1 in the printed course.

Exhaustion gaps usually occur in the last stage of a fast moving market.

Gaps are important to the experienced trader who can match them to the
pattern of the market.

As you can see gaps can be very revealing as to where the market is going.
Chapter 18
Tops and Bottoms
........................................................................................
Tops and bottoms of the market can be defined.

One of Gann's most important rules was to sell double and triple tops with a
stop above the market and buy double bottoms and triple tops with a stop
below the market.

The bigger the amount of time involved in the double or triple top, the more
important the resultant move will be.

In our research we have found that double and triple bottoms are more
common than double or triple tops.

With a double or triple bottom, rising bottoms are stronger than just flat
bottoms. With rising bottoms, the market is showing that there is not enough
weakness for the second or third bottom to get down to the bottom. Therefore
the market is much stronger.

Buying the breakouts of a double or triple tops or selling breakdowns of double
and triple bottoms is usually a very safe play as you are going with the direction
and momentum of the market.

There is a method that works very well with Gann double and triple tops and
bottoms. The method uses a displaced moving average. This method actually
defines a double or triple top or bottom. In Exhibit 18.1 (in the course book )we
show an example of December Cotton using a very tight 2 day moving
average, the solid line, displaced to the right 2 days. The closing price line is
dotted. In Exhibit 18.2 (in the course book) there is a blowup of the top of the
market. It shows that the market made three tops at 1, 3, 5. Each time before it
made the tops it had closed under the displaced moving average. Finally at
point 6 the market closed under the low at 2. This broke the market down. This
chart produced incredible profit in a very short period of time.

It's necessary to do back testing of prior tops and bottoms of the same
commodity or stock to get the best working combination of moving average and
displacement unit. What works in the past with a market, will usually work with
a present market.
When the market makes a fourth attempt that results in a failure it will usually
result to a fast move the other direction. Watch the fourth attempt closely.

Know where you are in the pattern of the market.

If a breakout occurs from a double or triple bottom, it is important that any
reactions must not be over three weeks.

If the market makes three tops and then breaks down and then makes a fourth
and fifth attempt which are lower lows, then the market is very weak and
should break sharply.

This displaced moving average method of defining double and triple tops and
bottoms gets you in the market safer than if you took your trade at the exact
double or triple tops or bottoms.
Chapter 19

Volume & Open Interest
........................................................................................
Volume and open interest is what drives the market.

Gann felt that volume and open interest was very important to indicate market
direction. This chapter will explain how to use these tools for indications of
direction of trend.

Volume is what drives the market. This indicates if there is increasing demand
for the supply in the market.

Volume is the number of contracts that traded during the day.

If volume does not increase or decrease then speculators feel the market will
remain steady. Volume usually remains steady in consolidation areas, usually
at low price levels.

If price moves out of a consolidation area with increased volume, then there is
a good chance that the price move will be the beginning of a good move.

If prices start to fall out of a consolidation area with increase volume it is
significant.

If when price falls the volume starts to fall, then the market may be ready for a
turn back up.

If the volume increases when price falls back to a base, it means that traders
are buying it as they think it is a bargain. If volume increase when prices run up
to a resistance area, it means traders are unloading it thinking price is too high.

Volume also increases when the market runs into stops. The floor traders often
times run the market into these areas when they can. If the market has run up
into stops and does not continue, then these is a good chance prices will fall
back as it just got the weak shorts who had to put in close stops.

For a big trend to continue, the volume must continue to rise. Watch the
volume closely as it will give you the clue to the market direction. Without
increasing volume, prices will not continue to increase.

After a long advance in prices many times the volume increases dramatically
because small speculators are jumping into the market near the top thinking
that prices will continue up forever.

After a long decline in the market many times volume will dramatically increase
because the public who have been long the market and loosing lots of money
are finally giving up and throwing in the towel.

When prices break out of a consolidation area and make their first advance
and then decline, if the volume runs up and then declines it is bullish.

When prices break down out of a consolidation area and makes their first
decline and then makes the first correction back up,if it decline is on heavy
volume and the retracement back up is on declining volume then this is a good
indication for a good move down.

Open interest is when there is a new buyer of a contract and a new seller.

When prices increase with rising volume and open interest increases this is a
further indication that the market will rise. Having all three rise is very bullish.

If prices are rising, with rising volume and decreasing open interest, then it is a
good indication that there is short covering in the market.

If prices are stable and open interest is rising there is a good indication that
positions are being accumulated.

If prices are stable and open interest is stable, there is no indication of any
change of trend. Look for the market to break out of a consolidation range with
rising open interest and volume to change this stable condition of the market.

If prices are stable and open interest is falling then there is a good indication
that the market is loosing interest and the public is going elsewhere.
Chapter 20
Gann Channels

Did you know that Gann, probably the greatest trader of all time used geometric
angles on important tops and bottoms to indicate the true trend of the market.
The angles were then paralleled to make the important Gann channels.

What were the angles he used to do this?

The were the 1x8, 1x4, 1x3, 1x2, 3x4, 2/3, 1x1, 4x3, 3x2, 2x1, 3x1, 4x1 and 8x1.

Also please note that a 45 degree angle is different than a 1x1 angle. See the
next issue of Traders World coming in 4 weeks from now. There is a complete
article about this.

In Exhibit 20.1 and 20.2 in the printed Gann Master Course you can see how
these angles are used. These angles actually determine all important tops and
bottoms. These angles do another thing. They divide time and price into
proportionate parts.

How far should you draw a Gann angle. The distance should be based on where
the angle is drawn from. For example, at a bottom of 72, the market will move up
72 hours, days, weeks or months. Look carefully at these angles. They tell you
the trend of the market.

The angles should be drawn off of the 0 point - 1 square up at a time. This allows
you to accurately square time and price on the chart.

You can use a fast MACD and a slow stochastic on your charts to determine
where to buy the bottom against these angles and parallels. In most cases the
MACD will get above the center point, putting the market in a strong position and
the stochastic will drop down to the 20% line and give a double bottom with
divergence.
Chapter 21
Types of Orders
The method of entering of the market can affect your profits.
You need to have a consistent plan for entering and exiting the market.
There are different types of orders for entering the market. The orders you place
will be designed for two purposes. One to enter into a new position and to exit or
stop out of your current position with a stop loss. The following are the types of
orders you can use:

Market Order
When you use this type of order, you want the floor broker to fill your order
immediately without any delay in time. I

Or Better Order
With this type of order, you want the floor broker to fill you at the price you put on
the order or even better than you put.

Market-If-Touched Order
A market-if-touched sell order is placed below the indicated price on the order. If
and when prices go up and hit that price, it is filled at the market.

Market-on-Close
This type of order is used if you want out at the market in the last closing minutes
of the day. Your order becomes a market order and fills at any price at the close
of the day.

One-Cancels-the-Other
With this type of order you can put an order in at a certain price and another
order in a price. If one of the orders is filled the other order is cancelled.

Stops
Gann constantly said, always put a protective stop loss in the market as the
market could turn against you anytime. Forecasting the market is all probabilities
and therefore you need protection, just in case the market doesn't cooperate with
you. This protection is necessary to preserve your capital. Gann felt that the stop
should be placed as soon as your entered your buy order.
Time Stops
Many traders use a time stop. The exchanges won't accept them, but they can
save a lot of money. With this type of stop, if the market does not give you a
profit within a certain time period, for example 3 days, you simply exit the
position.
