	

	





	



	





 !

"#$
%
&'(
"
!	$)*	+,
&
%-.
%
/-
/
+)	

0
1+, 2	

"

03-.	4

&"


!	$(



4	$.567
&

"
"

&(!	.!()*	
&1

+
/

%--		

	
"0"
7 
r 
Introduction 
L 
For the past several years many people who have read my two previous books, 
Geometry of the Stock Market: A Guide to Professional Trading for a Living and Chart 
Reading for Professional Traders, have written urging me to either write a course of 
instructions, or to put on more seminars to teach my methods of trading and stock market 
forecasting. This course of instruction is written to hlfill that need. By the time you finish 
reading this material, I expect you to have learned how to determine the true trend of any 
market, stock, or commodity on any world market, to forecast approximately how long a 
trend will persist and what the ultimate price targets are, and also to be able to successfUlly 
day trade the market. In short, this is a course of instruction on how to professionally take 
money out of the market and make a living doing so. 
What this course is not designed to do is to teach you the basics of what a stock is, 
or how to open a brokerage account, or any other such rudimentary, basic endeavors. 
There are books available in any library on those subjects. This material is for the person 
who wishes to make a career of professionally trading the market, and has put in sufficient 
time and effort to begin serious study. 
My perspective in this material is that of a technician and not a fundamentalist. 
Technical analysis is the study of the market with the underlying assumption that every- 
thing there is to know about the market or a stock is already reflected in the price and 
volume of the individual stock. No matter what the fundamentals are, or how they are 
changing, it takes buying and selling to move stock prices and without that, no investment 
will make money. Even if a company has a hidden gold mine on its property, the stock 
won't go up until the insiders secretly start buying. The price action will inform the astute 
technician that a purchase is suitable, and the hdamentalist will often not get wind of the 
real news for months, or until the stock has had a tremendous rise. 
This course, and my whole trading experience, has been developed around the 
principles of technical analysis, which forecasts price trends and probabilities so that you 
can anticipate the big moves long before the fundamentals really develop. Of course, in- 
vesting this way doesn't exclude using bdamental research, but 1 only use it after the fact 
to better understand the true dynamics of the move. The price itself is the only real truth. 
If it goes up I want to buy; if it goes down I want to sell. 
The art of speculation has often been likened to gambling, but there is a major 
difference between the two. In gambling, the house sets the rules and those rules favor the 
house. In sptbculation, like trading stocks, you set the rules. You decide when to buy or 
sell, how much to buy or sell, how much leverage to use and what your stop out point will 
be. You also have technical tools at your disposal, which will be covered in this course, 
and which can increase the odds of your being right in the trade by as much as 80 - 90%. 
This applies to both directions of the move and also the extent of the move. Speculation, 
then, is clearly different from gambling. Unlike gambling, speculation can be a profitable 
profession, and as with any business, you can professionally trade to make a living. 
Fundamentalists are those who invest by looking at the economic facts and profit 
and Ioss statements of investment issues. Ninety percent of all the players in the market are 
hdamentalists - bank trust departments, mutual funds, pensions funds, and wealthy indi- 
viduals. Wall Street caters exclusively to this crowd because of the huge commissions 
involved and as a result technical analysis is often derided as not being worthwhile. "Mar- 
ket Timers" are frequently criticized, but in fact, the bdamentalists simply don't know 
how to forecast the market and would rather say it's impossible to do than give business 
away. There are many wealthy individual investors who have had books written about 
their successes in the market, and they frequently say that they bought a good stock and 
held on without market timing. While this is true, these books do not mention the millions 
of investors who bought and held onto the wrong stock and broke even, lost money, or 
were wiped out. In short, it sounds good to see that Coca-Cola always went up, but I can 
show you chart books from 10 - 20 years ago where 10% of the big winners have disap- 
peared and are simply no longer mentioned. In 1966 the big name stocks were General 
Motors and AT&T. If you held onto these names you did not regain 1966 levels until the 
mid 1980's. You would have been much better off selling and going to the bank or buying 
something else. For me, the long term buy and hold idea only works if your stock is 
perpetually going up. It makes no sense to hold onto an asset that is in a long-term downtrend, 
no matter how good the name is. This course will inform you, with 100% certainty, what 
the trend is and what you should do. Whether you are disciplined enough to do what the 
charts tell you to is another matter. Some long-term investors made out very well because 
they held on through thick and thin, while some traders jumped out and were afraid to 
jump back in even though the trend was up. In theory, the trader who follows the rules or 
uses a mechanical system will always do better than the fundamental buy and hold inves- 
tor. 
I'm constantly asked the question as to whether someone can master day trading 
and make a business out of it. I always answer in two ways. First, I can teach you how. 
That's simple. The information for determining the trend and forecasting is readily avail- 
able and not terribly difficult to learn. Second, I always say that trading is like dieting. 
Information on diets is plentiful and is a billion dollar business. But how many people go 
on a diet and keep the weight off! If you are disciplined enough to maintain a diet then you 
fl 
can easily become a successful stock trader. 
In the final analysis there are four main driving factors in the human condition. 
These are Money, Sex, Power, Religion, and perhaps a fifth, Art. These are what motivate 
people. To some extent all of these motivators can be found in the U. S. Congress, but in 
the area of money, the brightest minds in the world are either on Wall Street or Las Vegas. 
Note however, that all these bright-minded individuals aren't all rich. Wall Street routinely 
pays millions of dollars a year in salaries to individuals, but most of that is for sales, not 
trading skills. You see the market is heled by the emotions of greed and fear. People who 
are attracted to the market are attracted out of an emotional base of greed, and they use 
their rational mind to justifL what they do. Since it's an emotional basis, however, they will 
always respond in an emotional way at precisely the wrong time and therefore lose money. 
This is why trading is like dieting. The principles in this course have been developed to 
strengthen your rational mind and teach you to control your emotions. You will be taught 
how to wait at emotional times to counter-trade the market against the emotional public 
and how to know when the trend is reversing, even though it looks emotionally scary. 
Technical analysis tools are objective measures that tell us without emotional involvement 
just what is to be expected. It has nothing to do with reading the newspaper or watching 
TV, thinking that news will make our stock go up or down. Perhaps for one day it might, 
but most of the time it's just random noise. In the cycle business we say "the news breaks 
with the cycle," which means it is the cycle that causes the news and not the other way 
around. This is simple enough to prove by just looking at the three or four big cycles that 
repeat all the time. These are 10 years, 20 years, 60 years and 100 years. The Kennedy- 
Lincoln 100-year cycle is well known, as is the decennial pattern. The 60-year cycle how- 
ever, is critical. When the days of the week were named for the seven visible planets, 
astronomers discovered that they returned to these positions each 60 years. For example, 
today we are replaying the late 1930's as to currencies, dictators, threats of world war and 
the rise of conservative governments and dictators (in a sense Churchill and Roosevelt 
were dictators relatively speaking). I'll discuss cycles more in detail in the following chap- 
ters, but for now bear in mind that if cyclic influences exist, and the evidence is over- 
whelming th~1.t they do, then fundamental cycles will return and will be reflected in the 
prices. Technical analysis of historical patterns will be of great value to the professional 
trader. 
. 
. 
Who Was F% D. Gann? 
Much of my perspective in this material comes from the great master W. D. Gann, 
who died in the mid 1 9 5 0 ' ~ ~  
but continues to be a major influence in forecasting and trad- 
ing. Perhaps no one before or since has been able to forecast as accurately or trade as well. 
While there are many Gann courses around, most are incomplete, as Gann wrote only a 
few that were not deliberately encrypted. Gann was a Mason and studied numerology, the 
planets, the Bible and other esoterica, and believed that the student must put in the time 
and effort to prove himself worthy before he could obtain the key. His thinking was simi- 
lar to the Pythagorean school, which made new initiates prove themselves by taking a 
vow of absolute silence, for a period of three years. In the Gann material there are deliber- 
ate smoke screens set up to distract the casual reader, but after years of study the more 
advanced student will find esoteric and astrological truths hidden in his papers. I teach 
some of his methods in this course but most are too advanced for the general public. Gann 
basically used angles, numbers and astrology to forecast and he developed dozens of 
number squares that were used for trading individual stocks and commodities. The Square 
of Nine is the most famous, and is used by as much as 20% of the pit in Chicago every day, 
so Gann still does exert a great influence. Most computer programs now routinely include 
Gann angles and cardma1 cross numbers for the Square of Nine. I will mention these in the 
following chapters. You should at some point study Gann independently from my works, 
but be advised that most of the available courses and books in print tell only half the story. 
I have been privileged to have spent nearly thirty years working in the market, with over 
twenty years studying Gann, and I have come to know well perhaps a dozen of the world's 
finest practitioner's of Gann's methods. I mention this only to warn you about the charla- 
tans in the Gann business these days (and it is a real business!). The truth is subtler and is 
not yet in print to my knowledge, although several recent books point in the right direc- 
tion. My advice is to first master the basic principles of angles, cycles, numerology, chart- 
ing, and then spend a good ten years on basic astrology. Then you can attempt some of the 
Gann Bible interpretations as they relate to stock trading. Conversion of planetary longi- 
tudes into stock prices, and Biblical stories and age longevities converted into longitudes 
on the globe for commodity conditions are part of the key. There is much more, but none 
of that is needed to trade effectively and to make a living doing so. It's more of a spiritual 
discipline for later life. Suffice it to say Gann was an eccentric genius that went to the 
grave with his secrets, but his writings offer clues as to how precise forecasting can actu- 
ally be. Much of my perspective in this work is the same as Gann's and I will try to explain 
it as we go along. One final interesting note is perhaps in order. Gann became famous in 
the 1920's and 1930's when he accurately forecasted the 1929 top almost to the day and 
the ensuing Great Depression. Looking back with what we know about his methods utiliz- 
ing astrology, numbers and cycles, it's easy to replicate that forecast, but Gann said he did 
it by another means. He said he read about it in the Bible. He often remarked that the Bible 
was the greatest book ever written and he read it over and over again and urged others to 
do the same. Perhaps this was his religion speaking, but a recent N. Y. Time's bestseller 
The Bible Code perhaps provides an answer that shows Gann's true genius. The Bible 
Code is based on a fanatic and ingenious idea that God encrypted all knowledge and 
hture events in the Bibl'e. The original Hebrew version of the Old Testament that has been 
hand copied down through the ages, with not one letter altered, has been tested in a high- 
speed, super computer, with regards to trying to identify letter sequences that might spell 
out words or sentences. Every letter in the Bible was strung out in a long sequence of 
hundreds of thousands of letters and then the computer compared every 2nd. every 3rd, 
every 4h, every 5th, etc. letter combination until it found crossword puzzle-like sequences 
of phrases and names. Now, any big book will sooner or later come up with random 
sequences of famous names like J. F. Kennedy or the like. However, significant, non- 
random sequences would prove that the Bible contains an encrypted code with an infinite 
amount of data, if these sequences were laid out in multi-directions and different dimen- 
sions. Indeed, the Bible, when comparing every nth letter, is large enough to include the 
names and relevant events of every person on the earth today. To crack the Bible code, 
huge military computers were used because of the enormity of the task. It was found that 
when 100 names and birthplaces of famous religious figures that were born after the Bible 
was written, were entered into the computer, all 100 came out in sequences that made 
complete reading sense as to their names and places of birth. Other names like Einstein 
being "brainy'' or the Kennedy assassination and the names of Ruby and Oswald were also 
discovered. The purpose of this paragraph, however, concerns the computer discovery of 
a phrase similar to " 1929 stock market crash and Great Depression." That's a paraphrase 
since I read the book briefly, long ago, but it stuck in my mind because of some study I was 
doing on Gann at the time. The essence of the Bible Code book is that it is only now, in the 
current generation, with high-speed, super computers that we can "crack" this Bible code 
and find the key to the coming purported, final millennium conflagration before it's too 
late. This was not available in prior ages since the technology wasn't developed. Only by 
having preserved the original Bible for four thousand years has this project been possible. 
Anyway, getting back to Gann, he didn't have access to a high-speed computer, but he 
was a master numerologist and Mason. He also said he liked Isaiah the most of all the 
Bible chapters and religious scholars have told me that Isaiah is a miniature Bible in and of 
itself, mirroring each chapter in the Bible in its structure. My guess is that Gann found a 
master key in Isaiah that allowed him to interpret portions of text and come up with many 
of his prophetic forecasts. Perhaps a little Bible study could help us all. 
Basics 
Trading, as opposed to investing, consists of buying and selling the same stock 
many times in an effort to capture more price fluctuations than just holding on for the long 
term. Many stocks appreciate 20 to 50% or more each year, but these same stocks can 
often swing through these ranges several times over the year. Just catching one or two 
complete swings will usually double the return of the trader over the simple buy and hold 
investor. Technical analysis tools like charts and trendlines combined with timing methods 
are what allow us to exploit these daily and weekly fluctuations to our advantage. But 
before we start using charts to examine price action, let's review the typical investment 
cycle and discover the players that make the market move. 
The big money in the market comes fiom institutional investors like pension hnds 
and mutual funds, or bank trust departments. Some wealthy individuals affect some stock 
prices, but it usually takes the 10-million share institutional buyers to make stocks move. 
Without institutional support most stocks languish in long-term flats with little significant 
price movement. In the past, economic cycle swings in the economy greatly affected com- 
panies' earnings and the price of these issues was quite volatile. Over the past ten to 
fifteen years however, the massive amounts of money going into institutional coffers has 
created an environment where there are consistent buyers almost every day, regardless of 
fundamentals. Price earnings ratios have climbed from 12 - 14 times to over 30 times. 
Some "go-go" stocks have P. E. ratios of 70 or more. This is more a sign of popularity and 
anticipated growth than actual economic prowess. Just before the Japanese bubble im- 
ploded in 1990, typical stocks had P. E. ratios of 70 or as much as 125! Even today with 
that market still down 50% for the past eight years, the P. E.'s remain near 30 times. In 
these times of somewhat irrational fundamental valuations, techcal analysis of price 
movement is even more important than ever before. One day these P. E.'s will start to 
shrink for years and years and people will buy into such declines believing that they are 
bargains. Only an objective analysis of the price action at that time will save investors and 
traders. Because the money flows into the large institutions have been so big, the mutual 
hnds industry has grown from some 700 funds in 1980 to over 8,000 at present. Keeping 
in mind that the entire N.Y.S.E. has only 3,000 listed issues you can see the effect on stock 
prices of the growth of these investing behemoths. Their strategy has simply been to buy 
and keep buying the fastest growing companies and never sell. Because they have per- 
petual cash hflows, they have bought dips each year as the market had corrections, and as 
a result always showed performance figures twice that of the general market appreciation 
during the year. If the Dow Jones went up 10% during the year, but had three dips of 5% 
along the way, and they added on every dip, their average cost would be such that if the 
market closed at the high of the year (and it always did) their return would usually be 20- 
30% or more. This is not due to any great investment philosophy or method, but simply 
the fact that if a market goes straight up and closes at the high each year and you add 
money, you will out-perform that average. The shock will be great the first year that the 
market closes at the low and the funds have added all year long. 
Another "strategy" the funds have used is the diversified portfolio idea of buying 
at least 200 individual issues that were growing at great rates and to just keep buying. That 
way no one issue would account for more than % of a percent of the portfolio and even if 
that stock went to zero, the hit to the fund would only be %%. The result of this strategy is 
that when earning expectations disappoint, there is the wholesale dumping of entire in- 
vestment positions of millions of shares and individual issues can and do drop 50% or 
more in a single day! This is insanity from an investment point of view, since no earnings 
fluctuation should have that kind of effect, but nevertheless that is the current strategy and 
one must adapt a trading plan around such outcomes, like avoiding stocks about to release 
earnings, or "piling on" once the break starts. 
Institutional investors sell in an eye blink on bad news, but they often buy quietly at 
limit prices over very great periods of time. To accumulate a 1 O-million share position or 
more in a stock that trades 300,000 shares a day might take six months. The rule of thumb 
has been that for every institutional order on the floor, that order will generate 3 times that 
volume by others ''front running" the order and trymg to jump in first. This is illegal, but it 
is a fact of life, and most day traders make much of their income by jumping in front of big 
orders and making the institution pay up. The beauty of charts, however, is that these big 
orders show up in chart patterns as higher bottom patterns, where a level is held for 
several days and the volume increases, and then the stock moves up to another level slightly 
higher. The fund will often wait there for a few weeks and then if not satisfied will move 
up yet again. This is a sign of accumulation and is a sure sign of higher prices. As long as 
the price is creeping higher week after week, and each correction only goes back to a 
prior support level without breaking, then this indicates the big money is not finished 
buying and is still there to catch the stock. A good strategy for day traders is to identify 
such long-term uptrending patterns and buy into dips back to those known support levels. 
This can only be done through the use of a chart or log of stock prices over time, to record 
the various levels of price and volume transactions. 
A declining phase will show a similar pattern only in reverse. The funds will start 
selling a few thousand shares every day using a limit order, and after a few hours to days 
of not being able to sell, they lower the price to another slightly lower limit for a few days. 
These walk down stair steps show downtrends and are used to sell short and only cover if 
the stock regains a prior high. Individual institutional positions can usually affect a stock's 
price for months at a time. At the end of an economic cycle, as the economy turns down 
into a recession, numerous institutions need money as investors pull out, and the massive 
liquidations create a bear market that can last for two to five years at a time. Individual 
stocks often go down for five years and can fi-equently stay out of favor for ten years 
before coming back. Only charts will help you decide at what point in the cycle a given 
stock finds itself and whether it should be bought or sold. So we begin our course in 
trading stocks with the study of price patterns, as seen on charts, in order to quickly 
identify trends to decide whether the stock in question should be bought or sold. 
Charts 
i 
Chapter 1 
There are many types of charts that traders have used over the years, such as line 
charts which connect the dots of hourly or daily closes, bar charts which show a vertical 
line to represent the open, high, low, and close for each time period, andpoint andjigure 
charts, which only record reversals in trends, such as every $3 movement in a direction. 
These point and figure charts are very good at showing long term swings and trend but 
they do not have a time element, so they can often show potential, but it may lie dormant 
for months or years. Japanese candlesticks are more visual and attempt to show reversals 
and volume by visually changing the size and shape of the daily bar. Thicker bars can 
show more volume, reversal bars have "tails" pointing in up or down directions, and col- 
ored bars (black or white) show the current trend compared with the prior bar. These 
visual bars are probably the best ones to use, but require much study and most chart 
services in this country don't always support them. Logarithmic bar charts show percent- 
age moves on the vertical price scale, while the standard bar chart shows unadjusted time 
and price scales. Each of the various chart styles have something to say and can be used, 
but to start in a simple manner and demonstrate the beauty of price and volume patterns, 
we will start with the standard bar chart in this course. Later you may want to switch to 
other charts, but the principles will always remain the same no matter what chart we use. 
Basically, we just need a price history that easily shows us whether or not the price is 
going up, and enables us to overlay some trendlines and time cycle counts. 
MICHAEL 
S. JENKINS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK 
MARKET TRADING 
AND FORECASTING 
COURSE 
12 
r 
Charts 
Chart #1 is a typical bar chart on a daily basis (one bar for each day) for an indi- 
vidual stock. The price is shown on the vertical scale and along the bottom are bars repre- 
senting volume for each day and the time axis in days. We clearly see that this is an 
uptrend, with few breaks to the downside that lasted more than a couple of days. Volume 
has been relatively consistent and low, so that nothing appears to be happening here to 
change the present forces in play. If we were bullish on the outlook for the market we 
would make up a list of such issues and buy them on pullbacks to past support levels. 
Chart I 
MICHAEL 
S. JENKINS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK 
MARKET TRADING 
AND FORECASTIKG 
COURSE 
13 
Charts 
Chart 2 
Chart #2 is a daily chart of the S&P 500 Index showing a downtrend into the 
October '98 low and an uptrend coming out. If you were to draw parallel channels around 
the highs and lows you could clearly see the directions of the trends. The width of the 
daily bars is usually fairly constant, or when it's not, it usually is a multiple of the average 
move, so if the normal day's movement is 10 to 15 points, a big day would be twice that, 
or three times that amount. Later we'll learn about "measured moves," which are standard 
fluctuations that most patterns exhibit and are very useful for forecasting price targets. 
On the following page, Chart #3 of the Dow Jones shows individual bars of about 
the same magnitude, but also note that the highs and lows of each day don't greatly ex- 
ceed the highs and lows of surrounding days except during times of "runaway" momen- 
turn moves. Most bars overlap the prior day's high or low by slight amounts and then fall 
back into the trading range. The most common error in all of trading comes from the 
tendency to buy or sell the "breakouts" thinking a big move is underway only to see it fail 
and later fall back into the middle ofthe range. Many day trading mechanical systems use 
this idea to scalp trades going against the move in the first 30 minutes of each day if 
MICHAEL 
S. JENKINS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK 
MARKET TRADING 
AND FORECASTING 
COURSE 
14 
Charts 
Chart 3 
there's a small overlap without much momentum. The ideal buying strategy is to wait to 
buy at a pullback point near the prior day's low, plus or minus a small percent and buy with 
a stop. Ninety percent of the time if you are disciplined enough to do this you will have a 
very good trade going for the next day. The emotional difficulty here is that usually the 
market opens up overlapping the prior day's high slightly and gradually trades down to 
the low of the day, which is the perfect buy point, but traders are so emotionally afiaid that 
the trend is reversing, that they won't make the trade at the end of the day and cany it 
overnight. When that happens the buyer of last resort is of course the specialist, and he 
buys cheap stock and marks it up the next morning. Sometimes the best trades are ones we 
put in to buy with stop orders, or limit orders at a set price determined the night before, in 
the calmness of looking over the charts at the end of the trading day. If the charts truly 
don't lie, then those objective decisions made with careful calculations and protective 
stops, are the best ones and our emotions shouldn't override those decisions. Here again 
it's like deting. If you're afiaid to trade because you might lose money, you're trading 
MICHAEL 
S. JENKIXS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK UKET 
TRADING 
AND FORECASTING 
COURSE 
15 
Charts 
with the emotion of fear and similarly you probably only buy out of greed to make money. 
'rh~s is not the way to beat an emotionally dnven creature llke the stock market. We must 
buy when we feel we must sell, and vice versa. We just can't be stupid and buy into a panic 
fiee fill or avalanche of sell orders on a bad earnings report. Interpreting the b& chart can 
help us detennine the trend and the support and resistance levels we should trade near. 
Let's start with the simple trend. The trend is up if the low of the daily bar on our 
chart makes a higher bottom than the previous low on the preceding bar. This trend can 
extend for long periods of time depending on how it is defined on a longer-term chart. For 
instance, an hourly bar that's higher than a prior hour is up for that hour, but says nothing 
about the day or week's trend. Whereas a weekly bar on a chart composed of 5 days 
activity compressed into a single bar, will show trends lasting a week to three weeks at a 
minimum. When a market reverses it is similar to a series of Chinese nested boxes that fit 
one within the other. In other words, a turn on a 15-minute chart as it extends, usually turns 
the hourly chart, and after a few hours the hourly chart turns the daily chart and finally, 
after a few days the daily chart can turn the weekly chart. Big moves come when all these 
time frames cluster tightly together and all turn simultaneously. Often this is just after a 
very narrow flat with little price movement. 
Chart 4 
Opening Level 
Closing Level 
lVZRd,,, , I 
Five Time Periods 
With A Rising Trend I 
Traders love to jump aboard a flat breakout, since a big move comes very fast. 
MICHAEL 
S. JENKINS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK 
MARKET TRADING 
AND FORECASTING 
COURSE 
16 
Charts 
Chart 5 
Trends usually persist or else they wouldn't be of help in trading. The persistence 
of trend is usually at least three bars at a minimum. This is the rule of three, or three-day 
rule, or three-week trend, or three-month trend. If the trend lasts more than three consecu- 
tive bars then it will usually go a Fibonacci number of bars such as 3,5,8, 13,2 1,34,55 
etc. The Fibonacci ratio 1.61 8 is achieved by an additive series of adding each number to 
its neighbor to get the next and is found in all aspects of nature. Here we have 1 plus 1 to 
get 2,2 plus 1 to get 3,3 plus 2 to get 5,5 plus 3 to get 8, etc. On hourly charts a five-hour 
advance is usually a sign of an uptrend, and we then look at 8 hours, 13 hours and 2 1 hours 
for reversal points. 
The bar chart exhples, charts #4 and #5, show simple trends and we need to 
know more about the volume traded each day and some long-term perspective, but before 
we can do that, we need to examine reversals in trend and define just what that is. Since 
trends manifest to greater or lesser degrees, such as hourly, b l y ,  weekly, and monthly, we 
will often get reversals of a minor nature that will not change the main trend. In the final 
analysis, this confusion ofwhich trend is the dominant one is the key that separates good 
traders from :veryone else. For instance, over the past decade each time the Dow Jones 
Averages dropped a few hundred points, it looked like the long-term trend had turned 
down. Certainly the hourly, daily and even weekly bar charts showed lower bottoms and 
Charts 
lower tops, but the yearly chart never broke a low from the prior bar (year) and neither did 
the quarterly chart (3 months to a bar). In most cases the monthly bar chart only broke the 
low of one bar and not three months, to show a persistent trend that would define a long- 
term decline. For traders, the trade turned bearish with the hourly chart breakdown and 
the daily chart breakdown, but when the bottom was made the hourly chart and daily 
turned up before the monthly turned down again. Long term investors like mutual funds 
never sold since the breaks were so short lived, but it was scary to hold positions through 
200 to 500 point Dow Jones drops if you didn't really know what the trend was. At the 
end of this lesson you will know. 
The uptrend is defined as a bar chart that makes higher bottoms, or the lows on 
each bar are higher than the prior bar's low price. Note that this definition says nothing 
about the highs on the bars. Uptrends are caused by accumulation when big institutions 
buy at the bid side of the market on limit orders and don't chase prices. As long as the bid 
side holds and goes up it shows unsatisfied buyers in competition with each other, so they 
keep raising prices to higher levels thus creating the higher bottoms pattern. Day traders 
and the inexperienced public often chase stocks up on good news, creating the high tick on 
the daily bar chart and are forced out at a loss as soon as the price drifts down. Usually the 
low they sell out at is slightly higher than the last low, and the perfect place to buy, not sell. 
This points out the emotionalism of the market. When people buy out of greed, they chase 
stocks and buy high to later sell low. We want to buy low to sell high. That's impossible if 
you buy when everyone else is doing so and the stock looks good. We want to make note 
of the prior day's low, or better yet the prior week's low, and be prepared to buy at that 
point with a trailing sell stop if we're wrong. To summarize again, the rising trend shows 
a series of higher bottoms on bars on each of the various time periods trade. 
The downtrend needs two criteria to validate the trend. It needs a series of lower 
Charts 
lows or bottoms, and a series of lower tops or highs. Each low should be lower than the 
prior low and each high should also be lower than the preceding high. Note that this is a 
pattern. The most important idea in all of the discussion about trend is that trends are 
defined bypatterns. In uptrends it's simply higher bottoms. In downtrends it's both lower 
highs and lower lows. 
Keep in mind the process of selling or liquidation. Investors are in competition with 
each other to sell out because of bad news, or need for funds, and if the volume doesn't 
support the selling they must lower their prices to get out. The only buyers are usually 
bargain hunters, who only show up at new lows for a scalp, or the buyers are shorts that 
are covering at a profit. This creates the pattern of lower lows and lower tops, as people 
continuously lower their expectations. Basic Uptrend: 
Chart 6 
Trend is up in Chart #6. Bottoms are all higher or at the same level. 
Charts 
Small breakdown in October during crash, but lows are quickly regained which is a classic 
sign of another buy signal. 
Chart 7 
Trend is down in Chart #7. There is a series of lower tops and lower bottoms. Only 
one small exception of 1o"wer tops in entire move and that is quickly erased. Also note that 
this is an identical time period to previous chart, demonstrating two very different invest- 
ments. 
Charts #6 and #7 are two examples of trend and clearly demonstrate the impor- 
tance of trading each stock individually and not as part of a general market theme. Usually 
stocks will follow the main trend of the market averages, but there are many exceptions, 
and if you just held onto this declining example you could have lost a lot of money waiting 
for it to turn around. Trends persist, and I have seen past leaders turn sickly and go continu- 
ously down for three to five years before attempting a comeback. You must therefore be 
objective and trade the patterns and not use guesses. 
MICF~AEL 
S. JENKINS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK 
MARKET 
TRADING 
AND FORECASTING 
COURSE 
20 
Reversal of Trend 
Chapter 2 
We know that an uptrend is a series ofhigher bottoms and a downtrend is a series 
of both lower tops and lower bottoms, but what indicates a reversal? In its simplest form 
a reversal on a bar chart occurs when the extreme bar is identified as being the prior bar 
and the opposite extreme of that bar is exceeded on the next bar. In other words, in an 
uptrend you find the high day bar where the high was the highest price for the move and 
you note the low of that bar, not the high. Most technicians will tell you to watch the high, 
but that's not what happens in real time. At the high, the reversal is made when exhaustion 
sets in, and since the big buyers are always on the bid side ofthe market, the penetration of 
the low is the sign that the buyers are gone. Sometimes the penetration of that high bar 
low won't occur for several days and the price will be in a narrow range, neither taking out 
the high nor the low, but once the low is taken out, the sell signal is given. 
The reversal of a downtrend occurs the same way. You identiQ the low bar of the 
move and note the high of that bar. When that high is subsequently exceeded, the trend 
turns up and you can go long with a stop at the low of the move, which would negate the 
buy signal if it went back down to that low. Again, keep in mind that the sellers use 
Reversal of Trend 
REVERSAL BAR SIGNAL 
PATTERN 
Chart 8 
Buy Signal 
w fhigh bar 
Sell signal 
this point 
generated at this 
High of low bar 
point 
limits and are working the offer side of the bar, so that when that is exceeded the sellers 
are gone, at least for the time being. Chart #8 illustrates examples of both signals. 
These are simple buy and sell reversals and if taken indiscriminately will lead to 
swift and sure bankruptcy. Good judgment can determine how long a trend has been in 
effect and whether a normal measured move in some direction has occurred, which usu- 
ally ends the move. Trendlines breaking, combined with time cycle counts coming to an 
end, are usually helpful. High volume is usually indicative of reversals and price reversal 
momentum is also often a key. In big moves like the endings of bull markets, the first few 
weeks can often reverse the entire gains of the past year or two. But no matter what 
happens, the first sign will be a reversal of an individual bar and that should be noted for 
reversals on all next larger size time scales, like hourly turning to daily, weekly, etc. Charts 
#9 and #10 show two examples of several simple buylsell signals. Not all of them are 
shown, but as you can see, the ones that came at the end of extended moves were good for 
several points at a minimurn and often went weeks before reversing out. 
I've used the term "measured move" before and we'll see examples of it later on, 
but the concept is basically that over a given time period like six months to three years, the 
players in the market are the same. Over long time periods their composition may vary, 
but for the intermediate term they exhibit the same buy and sell habits and their reactions 
to extremes don't change very much. If we examine ;1 rhart over a few month to a couple 
MICHAEL 
S. JENKINS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK 
MARKET TRADING 
AND FORECASTING 
COURSE 
Reversal of Trend 
of years and note the extremes, we will notice that each stock or commodity has an ex- 
treme hullish and an extreme hearish phase These can he "measiired" with a nller com- 
pass, or even our fmgers on the chart. The idea is simply that once a trading move has 
reached this usual extreme, a reversal in trend is expected. Looking for reversal bars can 
be beneficial if they fall at one of these normal extremes or "measured moves." 
SIMPLE 
BUY AND SELL SIGNALS 
Chart 9 
Chart I 0  
Reversal of Trend 
Tests of prior buy or sell reversal bars usually come at the point the original signal 
was gerlcr.aieu. 
Chart I 1  
Chart 12 
An adjunct to the simple buy/sell reversal bar idea is that once the signal has been 
generated and you later get a counter-trend movement back to where the signal was given, 
that movement will usually fail exactly at the 
Reversal of Trend 
point of the original signal. Ninety-nine percent of all other books on technical analysis 
erroneously tell you to expect a test of the high or low and that's what all traders watch 
for. It hardly ever happens, however, as indicated in Charts #11 and #12. The move will 
stop before the extreme, at the place where the buy or sell signal was given. In a long-term 
trend this is one way to validate that the long-term trend is still operative. For example, if 
you get a buy signal and six weeks later on a correction you go back down to the "test" 
area and then generate another buy signal, the second signal confirms the first as being 
long term valid. It's quite possible to see a string of such signals stretched over a 
year just pulling back to prior signals and confirming their initial ruling. 
MICHAEL 
S. JEIKINS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK 
~ R K E T  
TRADIKG 
AND FORECASTING 
COURSE 
r 
Volume 
Chapter 3 
No basic discussion of chart patterns is complete without examining volume pat- 
terns. Unfortunately, little is written about volume, though it is one of the most important 
considerations to the trader. No significant move can ever take place without some heavy 
volume being done, but in the middle of most moves, volume dries up. It is imperative 
therefore, that in examining charts that you notice where the very heavy early accumula- 
tion took place. Big volume starts as the move is just beginning, because the big institu- 
tions take large positions and it may last several months to a year or more before it sub- 
sides. After that the stock may rise another year or two before seeing big volume again, 
this time on the sell side, as they start to get out. In general, it is said that volume is 
positively correlated, or &at the heavy volume goes with the direction of the primary 
move and especially in the bull move, the volume goes up as the stock goes up. This is the 
only time that volume is really bullish - when the move is just getting started. Most of the 
time volume is negative, in that when it shows up, buying and selling are matched and a 
top is made. A decline then usually results until the volume dries up to the lowest reading 
of the move and then when it increases, the buyers are back and the advance starts again. 
Some technicians use a simple general market sell signal tied to three day or five day 
moving averages of the volume. After a high volume reading, as soon as the moving 
average turns down, the market tops out. 
MICHAEL 
S. JENKINS 
COMPLETE 
STOCK 
M . ~ K E T  
TRADISG 
AND FORECASTING 
COURSE 
26 
Volume 
You must pay attention to the pattern of volume over a several week period. During 
dla~ 
p~iiu; y uu >&;i; 
ILOLC Lc; 
llul~llal 
bp;jh~b uf v U;UIIAL illa~ 
~ L C :  ~ ~ h u d i i y  
IrUuiC: 
~ t i i i l l  
d tidy 
or two of all the swing highs and lows. If an advance has been underway for three weeks, 
and then the biggest volurne of the month is recorded, it is a certain sign of a coming 
correction. Likewise, when you are day trading and buying into a three-day dip, you are 
likely to see increasing volume with little price movement. That usually means the seller is 
getting "cleaned up" and the stock is about to reverse. I learned this fiom an old profes- 
sional, who pointed out a stock that was doing about 6 million shares that day when the 
average volume was 1.2 million. I was bearish and the stock was down 50 cents on the day 
on that heavy volume, but he correctly inquired of me why it wasn't down a lot more if the 
volume was really selling and not scale buying. Of course he was right and the stock 
reversed up on the close and quickly ran about $10 over the next three days. I now make 
it a point to match my predicted lows and highs with exceptional volume. Cycles also 
bring in the volume and in the general market you 
Chart 13 
Volume 
Chart I4 
Chart 15 
