
--- Page 1 ---
ASTROLOGY

and

STOCK MARKET
FORECASTING

by |

|

Louise McWhirter

|

Foreword by Mary Vohryzek |

    

--- Page 2 ---
 

Second Edition © 1977 by ASI Publishers, Inc.

Third Printing 1983

No part of this book may be reproduced by any mechanical, phote-
graphic, or electronic process, or in the form of a phonographic record-
ing, nor may it be stored in a retrieval system, transmitted, translated
into another language or otherwise copied for public or private use,
excepting brief passages quoted for purposes of review, without per-
mission of the publisher.

3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1

Printed in the U.S.A.

Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data

McWhirter, Louise.
Astrology and stock market forecasting.

Published in 1938 under title: McWhirter theory of stock market
forecasting.
l. Astrology. 2. Stock-exchange—United States.
i. Title.
BF1729.B8M33 1977 153.5'8'332645 FF-315
ISBN 0-88231-034-8

To
The Sincere Students of Astrology

 

--- Page 3 ---
Contents

FOREWORD ........ 000. ee ee ee i

I Theory and Application of Forecasting Stock

Market Trends .........0.0...02 000000 3
Il Business Cycles and Stock Market Trends,
1850-1950 200 ee 1]
A
t first, we basic contented in our sun Ill How to Forecast Monthly and Daily Trends
And take what daylight shows us for the truth. | on the New York Stock Exchange ....... 95
Then we discover .. . :
4 IV How to Forecast Trends of Individual
Atrnep Noves 7 Stocks 00. ee 110

V Date and Place of Incorporation of Stocks
Listed on the New York Stock Exchange = 132

VI Simplified Ephemeris of the Planets, 1938 .. 18]
VII Glossary of Terms... 0.0000 ee 186

APPENDIX .........0.. 000000500 eee 197

 

 

--- Page 4 ---
 

 

List of Illustrations

Business Cycle Chart... 000-2 cece ccc cee e cc eneeene 6
California Gold Prosperity Period, 1850-1834......... 12
Panic of 1857.22... cece eee een eee i4
Secession Depression, 1859-1862....-..........00005- 16
War Prosperity Period, 1863-1865... .........00000005 19
Primary Post-War Depression, 1865-1866............- 21
Industrial Over-Expansion Prosperity Period.......-.. 26
Secondary Post-i¥ ar Depression, 1873-1879.........0405 29
Gold Resumption Prosperity Period, 1879-1883........ 33
Depression of 1884.......-.0 20-6 cscs ence enon aeee 36
Railread Prosperity Period, 1888-1892..............5- 40
Baring Crisis, 1891. 0.0.0.0 ccc eee eee ees 43
Panic of 1893-1895. 00.0... 0. ccc cee e canoe ees 46
Recowery of 1895.20.00. 20.2 eee ee ee eee eee 48
Silver Campaign Depression, 1896-1897........-.-54+: 50
Merger Prosperity Period, 1900-1903........-.....-.. 54
Rich Man’s Panic, 1903-1904 .... 00.0... 0. cc eee 56
Corporate Prosperity Period, 1905-1907. ..........005: 58
Panic of 1907.2... 222-0 c eee eee aya ee eee ..-+ 6)
War Depression, 1913-1914. 2.2.0.0... 0 eee eee 64
War Prosperity Period, 1915-1918... ...0.0.....0-0000e- 66
Primary Post-W ar Depression, 1920-1922. ........-.54- 69
Coolidge Prosperity Period, 1925-1927.............+.- 72
“Bull Market Boom,” 1928-1929. ......0.000 5000 e ewes 74
Secondary Post-War Depression, 1929-1934. ..........- 77
Chart of the United States of America... . 0.0. .0000005 90
New York Stock Exchange Chart. ... 0.600 cee 96
Fic. I —New York Stock Exchange Chart with Planet
Positions for March 2, 1938........0.-0055 104
Fic. [I—New York Stock Exchange Chart with Planet
Positiens for May 29, 1938..........000.05 1

ExaMPLe | —United States Steel Corporation Chart.. 112
ExaMPee II —Spiegel, Inc. (Formerly Speigei, May,
Stern) Ghart ....cccc cea uce ace ccens

EXxaMPLe II]-—Sears Roebuck Company Chart........ 128

 

--- Page 5 ---
 

FOREWORD

Few of us can understand why the all-important relationship
between astrology and finance has been so completely neglected.
Despite the importance of the progress in other branches of
astrology, the student and investor has not, until now, been able
to delve deeply into the roots of financial astrology. The reason
for this, we believe, is a lack of scientific information. It is the
intention of this book to afford such knowledge.

This book is in no sense of the word the complete text on the
subject. It does aim to present in factual form an outstanding
new theory of financial astrology. It also attempts to trace the
operation of this theory upon the investor's possibilities in the
stock market.

Louise McWhirter, well known financial and economic analyst,
is a vetetan writer who has contributed many important treatises
to the science of astrology. She was at one time editor-in-chief
of a nationally-known astrological publication, which post she
resigned to devote her energies to research in the very much mis-
understood field of financial astrology. In back of this step was
her life-long desire to develop her original theory of Astronomics.
It was during this formative period, while Miss McWhirter was
compiling important financial statistics, that this volume found its
genesis. From that moment, no fact which had a bearing on the
Astronomic theory was untested or overlooked. The herenlean
task of preparing detailed financial graphs, checking them daily
against financial fluctuations and astrological findings, continued
for more than seven years. Today the author is convinced beyond
a doubt that this work is complete and satisfactory.

The subject matter is new and original. Its purpose is to give
a sound astrological key to financial investors. However, even
if this book is not to be used as a guide in financial investment,
the authority and freshness of tts approach should make it a wel-
come addition to the library of every sincere student of astrology.
We earnestly believe that with diligent application and accurate
calculation much benefit and personal gain can be secured from
the McWhirter theory.

 

--- Page 6 ---
Introduction

Economists and politicians regularly promise to elimi-
nate all those familiar ‘“‘boom or bust” cyclic patterns by
governmental fine tuning. While this is a most admirable
goal, astrologers and other students of cycles know that there
is a constant fluctuation between alternating periods of
optimism (bullishness) and pessimism (bearishness) in eco-
nomic and business life. Rather than attempt to alter this es-
sential rhythm, it is far wiser to take advantage of these
swings in mood or mass feeling and tailor activities accord-
ingly. Astrology offers the investors and traders a unique tool
for timing these changes and indicating their direction.

Louise McWhirter’s book ASTROLOGY AND STOCK
MARKET FORECASTING is a superb source of information
and techniques for those who not only have the requisite as-
trological knowledge but also the experience in trading.
However, there are several other important factors that the
would-be trader must take into consideration.

Before you rush out with her book in hand to your
nearest broker, please read on this distillate of wisdom from
one who has paid her tuition for knowledge in this special-
ized field. I have made money and I have lost money trading
commodities, puts and calls (long before they were as pop-
ular as they are today) and stocks. I would dearly love to
credit my successes to me and my superior techniques and
my failures to bad companions, but if I am to be honest and

i

 

--- Page 7 ---
 

extract something useful from the experience to pass on, I
have to admit my complicity in the disasters and analyze
them meticulously.

Therefore, the best piece of advice I can offer anyone
who intends to try to make money in the stock and commodi-
ty markets is, “‘know thyself” intimately, not only through in-
formation gained from a careful study of your own natal
chart but also through a careful analysis of your behavior,
your attitudes and motivations, your needs and, finally, your
greed quotient. You will have to ask yourself searching ques-
tions and answer them honestly, even if the answers do not
exactly agree with that ideal image of yourself. To the extent
that you answer truthfully you will be in a better position to
know whether you have the necessary talents and qualities of
personality to function effectively in this emotion-laden area.

The capacity for objectivity and detachment is ab-
solutely essential to avoid the most common error made by
‘market losers” —that of identifying with the position taken.
This is likely to occur when you feel that the stock or com-
modity must go up (or down) because you have bought (or
sold). Perhaps that stock or commodity does not feel like go-
ing up (or down) at the moment, and the fact that you have
bought (or sold) will not influence its course one whit. In-
deed, markets in general are singularly unimpressed with the
identity of either buyer or seller. Although it is difficult to ad
mit that one has made an error either in judgment or timing
(timing errors can be just as serious), failures and mistakes
are inherent in the human condition. Efforts to prove that
one is immune to the working out of this law by hanging onto
mistaken trades can be very costly.

Analyses of traders, both the successful and unsuccess-
ful ones, done by brokerage houses, have shown that money-
making traders do not have more right trades than wrong
trades. However, they do close out their mistaken ones more
quickly and allow the correct ones to run on profitably until

ii

there is a change in the situation. In other words, those who
make money in these markets are not afraid to admit error
and take small iosses from time to time when they are wrong.
They rarely become so emotionally involved that they
“marry their positions.”” You must therefore ask yourself
whether you can admit to mistakes without your basic securi-
ty being jeopardized. Unless you have cultivated this ability,
stay away from trading.

How is your patience quotient? If this is not your forte,
perhaps you will do better making money in another field. As
we say endlessly, without really hearing what it is that we are
saying, ‘there is a time for everything’. Nowhere is this
aphorism more valid than in the money markets. Saturn is
the lord of both patience and timing as well as success in
trading. Can you sit out a correct position until it has gone as
far as it can profitably or are you in mortal terror that the
profits will evaporate? The saturnian qualities of careful in-
vestigation before investing and moderation in expectations
rather than the negative qualities of fearfulness and greed
must predominate to insure good results.

Are you impulsive? If you are, and have not learned to
curb its excessive manifestations, you will find yourself in
some rather unfortunate financial positions which could
have been avoided with a little forethought. You may be
lucky occasionally, but luck is a very slim reed to lean on for
long-term trading. If Mars and Jupiter are doing dynamic
things to each other in your chart, look out for a tendency to
be impulsive; otherwise, you may be more likely to lose your
shirt than make a fortune.

Are you highly suggestible? If you are, but have the re-
quisite qualities otherwise, this is not a total bar to trading.
However, it is a cautionary sign that you will have to stay
away from people when you are studying the pros and cons
of the situation, trying to decide which position, if any, to
take. There will be touts on every corner and in every broker-

til

 

--- Page 8 ---
 

age house and you are more easily influenced than most. Al
ways bear in mind that it is your money at stake. If all these
people knew so much, they would be so unbelievably wealthy
that they would not be bothering to offer you advice. Inter-
estingly enough, this very susceptibility to outside influence
can be a tremendous asset in trading if used advantageously
to sense general business and market conditions and trends.
However, one must be very still, away from all outside pres-
sure and suggestions, and listen to that internal knowing
which will point to the correct decision.

Finally, and perhaps most important of all, you must
calculate your greed quotient. Unless you are willing to settle
for returns on your trading operations commensurate with
your risk and original investment, you are likely to incur the
additional trading hazard of greed. This trait can subvert the
most carefully planned strategy because, when it is in full
bloom, one loses all sense of proportion and judgment. To
avoid any possibility that greed can destroy your financial
success, always plot very carefully, before taking the post-
tion, what would be a reasonable return on your investment
of time and money and for the most part, stay with that fig-
ure.

MUNDANE ASTROLOGY

Now that you have completed your self-appraisal and
decided that you have the required personality qualifica-
tions, it is time to consider the extent of your knowledge of
mundane astrology. This specialized area is concerned with
the application of astrological knowledge and techniques to
the larger groups, i-e., cities, states, nations and money mar-
kets. It is particularly involved in the analysis of lunations
(monthly new and full moons), eclipses, synodic conjunctions
and planetary cycles as they depict world-wide trends and
attitudes affecting everyone. The immediate impact of, for

in

example, Saturn in aspect with the Sun and Moon of an
eclipse will affect everyone, but the particular area of life
will vary from one place to another, depending upon house
location and rulership. Saturn in aspect with a monthly luna-
tion will have a much more limited influence, lasting only the
time until the next lunation.

One of the most important business indicants is the
periodic (about every 20 years) synodic conjunction of the so-
called “‘business planets”, Jupiter and Saturn. An analysis of

the conjunction chart itself plus the knowledge of their cur-

rent interrelationship can be used to time periods of expan-
sion as well as those of contraction and consolidation. Ig-
norance of this constant tidal pattern leads the unwary to
over-expand during periods of optimism and, like the fabled
grasshopper, to be unprepared for the inevitable rainy day. If
the qualities of these planets are handled properly, there is
enough expansion to prevent stagnation, but sufficient mod-
eration and foresight to secure the advances.

C.C. Zain in his book MUNDANE ASTROLOGY de-
scribes the technique for setting up and interpreting cycle
charts of the planets from Mars outwards. These charts are
read solely in terms of the planet for which they are erected.
The transit aspects of that planet describe activity until a
new cycle chart is made. While he shows an interpolative
technique for timing the change-over from south to north
declination the cycle chart is based on the time of entrance of
a planet into north declination), I have learned that there
may be several hours or days difference in time between the
figure so calculated and that obtained from your local astro-
nomical society. Since this chart is to be used as one of many
predictive tools, it is extremely important to secure as ac-
curate a time as possible. In the fall of 1973 several of these
cycle charts were activated by their particular planets. The
Neptune, Pluto, Saturn and Uranus charts were very busy
during this period.

 

--- Page 9 ---
 

At the American Federation of Astrologers’ Convention
in Seattle (1968) Louise G. Mench gave an interesting talk on
stock market trading. The gist of her comments is that the in-
formation as to one’s luck or lack thereof in trading lies in a
thorough study of the individual’s natal chart with particular
attention to the planets in the fifth house and aspects to other
planets. If these planets are in stressful aspect to planets in
the seventh house or the ruler thereof, it is much safer to do
any speculation alone. Partners will in one way or another
involve one in poor judgment and/or timing. If all the above
indications are reversed, then working with partners will
generally prove beneficial in trading operations.

Many individuals have charts that indicate an ability
for managing money for others, but not for themselves. They
should content themselves with the smaller rewards paid to
money managers. They usually are excellent advisors. Again,
there are those whose charts point to a very different way of
earning a livelihood and they should resist the temptation of
trading.

Apart from these general astrological considerations,
there is one extremely important calculation to make and
that is one for the “fatal flaw” point not only in your chart,
but also in the chart of the stock or election chart. This point
is called the Mars/Neptune mid-point,* and refers to that
area in each chart where there is likely to be great disap-
pointment because of miscalculation or unrealistic expecta-
tions as well as inherent susceptibility to error. The point is
found by adding the longitudes of Mars and Neptune and di-
viding by two. If this mid-point is aspected in your chart by
current lunations or eclipses, it is a warning to you to exercise
extreme caution in your affairs during the ensuing period. If

 

*The Mars/Neptune sum used by Uranian astrologers is also valid. This
sensitive point is found by adding the longitudes of Mars and Neptune.

 

this mid-point is activated in the foundation chart of some
company stock you are considering, you should make a very
careful analysis of current market activity and recent stock-
holder reports before risking your money.

MARKET TRADING

While J do not intend to write a discourse on trading, as
there are excellent books covering this subject in great depth
and detail, I do feel that readers of this book should study this
technical material and not rely solely on astrological knowl-
edge. It is necessary to understand how mass psychology af-
fects not only markets, but also individuals and be able to
translate this information into skill in manipulation and tim-

Within the past twenty years there has developed a very
popular method of trading in commodities called “contrary
opinion”. In short, this technique is based upon the reality
that excesses bring corrections, or, as one broker I knew used
to say, “When everyone gets on the same horse, the horse
does not go very far.’””’ When bullish sentiment begins to ap-
proach the 90 percent level, it is about time to sell and, con-
versely, when bearish feeling reaches this same 90 percent
level, it is time to buy. This is very logical, but seldom re-
membered by traders. If everyone wants to sell and no one
wants to buy, or vice versa, there is an imbalance in the mar-
ket and the direction of the market is about to change.

Norma! bullish tendency is rated at about 65% since
most people feel more secure having something or buying.
Furthermore, individuals generally feel that there is some-
thing slightly immoral about going ‘“‘short”’ or selling in the
expectation of later being able to buy at a lower price. A
great deal of money can be made in markets if the trader can
overcome this built-in bullish bias and short stocks or com-

oli

 

--- Page 10 ---
modities that are about to go down in price. This path takes
strong nerves because, theoretically, there is no limit to the
lasses if one is mistaken.

The further techniques of correlating astrological in-
formation and business charts are well described by Louise
MeWhirter in her book. The use of the nodal axis to deter-
mine over-all bullish and bearish tendencies is her unique
contribution to this fascinating stock and commodity market
game.

In summary and as an aide-memoire, I want to close
with the well-known Wall Street aphorism: “‘Bulls make
money, bears make money and hogs lose.”

Mary L. Vohryzek
November 21, 1976

Recommended Reading

Barbault, André. Les Astres et L’Histeire (The Stars and History), publish-
ed by author, 1970, Paris, France.

Boyd, Mary Whitty. Horoscopes — Dow Jones Industrial Stocks,
Salem, Or: published by author, 1970.

Brahy, Gustave-Lambert. La Clef de la Prévision des Evenements Mon-
diaux et des Fluctuations Economiques et Boursiéres (The Key to Forecast-
ing World Events and Economic and Stock Market Fluctuations),

Brussels, Belgium.

Carter, Charles E.O. An Introduction to Political Astrology,
London: L.N. Fowler & Co. Ltd., 1973.

DeVore, Nicholas. Encyclopedia of Astrology,
New York: Littlefield, Adams & Co., 1974.

Jensen, L.J. Astro-Economic Interpretation,
Kansas City, Missouri, George E. Liggett, 1936.

Johndro, L. Edward. The Earth in the Heavens and The Stars,
New York: Samuel Weiser, 1977.

wit

Kaye, Doris. Stock Market Horoscope 1970,
Cleveland, Ohio: The World Publishing Company, 1969.

MacCraig, Hugh. The 200 Year Ephemeris,
Richmond, VA, Macoy Publishing Co., 1949.

Sepharial. Eclipse in Theory and Practice,
Hollywood, CA: Symbols & Signs, 1974.

Van Norstrand, Frederic. Precepts in Mundane Astrology,
New York, Macoy Publishing Co., 1962.

Williams, LCDR David. Astro-Economics,
St. Paul, MN: Lhwellyn Publ., 1959.

Zain, C.C. Mundane Astrology,
Los Angeles, California, Church of Light, 1962.

Dewey, Edward with Og Mandino. Cycles.
Foundation for the Study of Cycles, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Filer, Herbert. Understanding Put and Cail Optians,
New York, Crown Publishers, Inc., 1959 Sixth printing, 1963.

Gold, Gerald. Modern Commodity Futures Trading,
New York: Commodity Research Bureau, Inc., 1959 Third {revised} edi-
tion, 1963.

Graham, Benjamin. The Intelligent Investor.

Loeb, Gerald. Battle for Investment Survival.

Standard & Poor’s Corporation Records.

Commodity Year Books.

Commodity Chart Service. Moody's Investor's Service, Inc.

 

--- Page 11 ---
 

Chapter I

Theory and Application of Forecasting
Stock Market Trends

FIPHE theory of forecasting future trends of the Stock Mates
and the trend of business, as outlined in this book, is based on
sound astronomical law. The law is here; it need only be applied
to bring economic independence and a more abundant living
to every man and woman in this country.

The way conditions exist today man is the victim of the business
cycle. With detailed charts and graphs, he can tell you when busi-
ness began to pick up, and when a recession started, but he cannot
tell you those factors in advance, with all his statistical research,
because he has no #ime factor.

A leading economist, Col. Leonard P. Ayres, of the Cleveland
Trust Company, in a booklet entitled Business Recovery Fotlow-
ing Depression” states in a paragraph that “Positive Forecasting”
is impossible despite the fact that all booms and depressions
have a certain similarity. There is always a new factor present
which was not present in the last depression or previous depres-
sions. To quote:

“The explanation of this lack of uniformity is to be found in
the variety of the fundamental conditioning factors that may con-
trol the developments and outcomes of these business swings.
Chief among these is agricultural production which powerfully
affects the general prosperity of the country. War is another con-
trolling factor which cannot be foreseen. The prosperity of peoples
in other lands is still another of the influences that powerfully
modify conditions in this country.

“Since these and other factors cannot be foretold, it is impossible

to construct a reliable method for making statistical forecasts of
finance and business.”

[3]

 

--- Page 12 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

The theory of this book, however, makes the forecasting with
accuracy of all of the above hitherto unknown factors, by the
study of the angular relation of the planetary bodies to each other
as they transit the twelve signs of the zodiac.

It is @ well-known fact that certain countries are “ruled” by
certain signs of the zodiac. That is, from observation and re-
search, it has been found that a planet passing through a certain
sign bas a very definite bearing on the fortunes of a particular
country. For example, the United States is strongly under the
influence of the signs Gemini and Cancer and planets passing
through these two sigas have a very definite effect upon the busi-
ness conditions of this country depending of course on the
nature of the planet. These planetary transits can be known years
in advance. The same is true of war conditions, crop conditions,
booms, recessions, etc., the angular relation of the planetary
bodies forecasting the conditions.

The Ecliptic is the Sun's path. A planet crossing this path
moves from South latitude to North latitude and from North
latitude to South latitude. The word “node” is the name for the
points in the orbit of a planet where it crosses the Eclsptic, or
Sun's path. The point where it crosses from south to north ts
the North Node; and the point where it crosses from north to
south is called the South Node. The Moon’s Nodes have a
cycle of nineteen years. That is, it takes them nineteen years
to pass through the twelve signs of the zodiac. The trend of
the Business Volume Curve has been found to correspond with
the cycle of the North Node. In this theory, the transit of the
North Node forms the basic trend of business activity and vol-
ume. Secondary planetary factors can distort this Curve ten to
twenty per cent above or below the normal line depending upon
the natute of the planet and the angles formed. Business Cycles,

as pottrayed on the Chart “A Century of Business Progress” by
Col. Leonard P, Ayres, is used on a comparative basis with the
transit of the North Node portraying the major trend of business
volume and activity. Planetary aspects or angles to the North
Node and to each other form the secondary trend. In other

[4]

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

words, the major trend of Business Activity is clearly shown by
the movement of the North Node around the Business Cycle
Chart (see chart on page 6).

Whenever the North Node passes through Scorpio and Libra
(the North Node moves backward through the zodiac), business
goes through an approximate three year “transition period,” if
there are no unfavorable secondary factors present to distort the
Business Activity Curve; business volume is going from normal
to above normal, creating a prosperity period or the beginning
of a Bull Market in stock prices as well as other forms of busi-
ness. Whenever the North Node reaches the sign of Leo, Busi-
ness Volume is normally at a high point, if there are no second-
ary factors present of an unfavorable nature to distort the Curve.
As the North Node passes through Cancer and Gemini, Business
vous secon fac but the trend is slowly toward normal.

avorable secon factors can prolong this prosperi iod
beyond the allotted time and unfavorable secondaty fartors ¢ can
decrease the length of the favorable period.

Whenever the North Node moves into Taurus, a “transition
period” begins which lasts through the sign of Aries, which is
approximately about three years. This is a warming that the
normal position of the Business Volume Curve has been reached
and that the trend of Business activity is slowly going from nor-
mal to below normal for the next three or four years.

In 1929, the North Node was in Taurus and had been there
since December, 1928, giving the warning six to eight months
in advance that the Bull Market Boom was nearing its end.
Jupiter was in Taurus in conjunction with the North Node in
May and June of 1929, « favorable secondary factor which sent
the Business Curve upward six points through June. However
when this aspect passed, the Curve dropped and remained below
normal for four years until the North Node passed out of the
sign Aquarius, which is the sign on the low point of the Business
Cycle Chart. According to this theory all these factors were pre
dictable in advance years ahead of the actual happening, No
Administration was responsible for the Depression and ao Ad-

15}

 

--- Page 13 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

BUSINESS CYCLE CHART

 

[6]

Mc? hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ministration is responsible for the Recovery according to this
theory, which is based on the Law of Action and Reaction. The
“seal” recovery began in February, 1935, when the North Node
moved out of Aquarius, the sign on the low point of the Business
Cycle Chart. A favorable secondary factor, Saturn sextile Uranus,
was also present during a two-year period and this sent stock
matket prices and business activity higher than they normally
would have been. In August, 1937, when the present recession
set in, the North Node was tn Sagittarius, and the normal posi-
tion of the Business Volume Curve was slightly below normal.
At the same time Saturn placed on the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart indicated lower prices for stocks
and bonds. When this planet formed an unfavorable forty-five
degree angle to Uranus, Stock Market prices began to plummet.

In April, 1938, Saturn moved to a slightly favorable angle
with Uranus (thirty degrees) and the North Node moved into
Scorpio, the transition point on the Business Cycle Chart, indicat-
ing that the technical “normal” point has been reached by the
Business Curve, and with the slightly favorable secondary factor
present, stocks should go up next year as Jupiter passes over
the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart, and
Business Volume should rise toward the normal line during most
of 1939.

THE THEORY

The major or primary trend of business volume and finance is
clearly pointed out by the nineteen-year cycle of the North Node
as it passes through the twelve signs of the zodiac.

Whenever the North Node passes through Scorpio and Libre,
there is a transition period as the Curve passes from normal,
going from normal to high.

The high point of business volume is reached when the North
Node transits Leo. As the North Node goes through Cancer and
Gemini, Business volume is above normal, but slowly going to
normal,

Taurus is the transition point or normal point as the Curve

[73

 

 

--- Page 14 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

goes from normal to below normal in business volume.

When the North Node enters Aquarius, the low point of
Business activity has been reached. As the Node transits Capri-
corn and Sagittarius, the normal position of the Business Curve
is below normal going to normal.

This is the natural position of the Curve without the presence
of secondary factors which can distort the Curve favorably or
unfavorably from one to twenty per cent.

The following secondary factors have been found to lift the
Business Curve:

. Jupiter conjunction the North Node.

. Saturn trine, sextile, or semi-sextile Uranus.

. Jupiter in Gemini or Cancer.

. Jupiter in conjunction, sextile or trine aspect to Saturn and
Uranus, which are in aspect to each other.

. The North Node in Gemini.

. Favorable aspects to Pluto.

om WH A

on A

The following secondary factors have been found to depress
the Business Curve:

1. Saturn conjunction the North Node; square or opposition
to it.

. Saturn conjunction, square, opposition, or semi-square
Uranus.

. Saturn in Gemini.

. Uranus in Gemini.

. Uranus square, conjunction, opposition the North Node.

. Unfavorable aspects to Pluto.

ho

ON wt of le

A combination of any of these factors give strength for what-
ever they indicate. If one or more favorable secondary factors
are present they take the Curve upward. If one or more unfavor-
able secondary factors are present they turn the Curve downward.
If one good and one unfavorable secondary factor is also present,
the effect of the secondary factors is to neutralize each other, or
to counteract the effects of the various factors involved.

[8]

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting
THE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

The trend of stock market prices tends to conform to the major
trend of the Business Curve. However, the Stock Market is under
a set of individual conditions of its own. These governing plane-
tary factors may be told by studying the Chart of the New York
Stock Exchange as originated by the writer. Planets on the
angles of the New York Stock Exchange Chart clearly indicate
Market conditions. Aspects favorable and unfavorable between
Saturn aod Uranus or Pluto, definitely indicate stock trends; and
aspects between Mars and Neptune, the two planetary rulers of
the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart, and
the aspects from other major planets to Mars and Neptune, indi-
cate what the Stock Market price averages will do. These are
taken up in detail in Chapter III. Chapter II shows how Stock
Market trends and Business Cycles are correlated.

APPLICATION

The practical application of this theory should bring eco-
nomic independence to a greater number of people than ever
before. It shows how to analyze, years in advance, business
conditions; crops, wars, and other factors which have such an
important effect upon security prices. It shows you when to get
out of the Market and when to get in, which are two of the
more important things a trader must know.

Everything needed for the study of this theory is contained in
this book and can be practically applied.

The rise and fall of Stock Market prices come in definite
intervals of time or cycles which follow the Curve of Business
Volume and activity. This rise and fall of prices is governed by
the law of supply and demand, which in turn is governed by a
law in the untverse, hitherto unknown or ignored, known as the
Law of Action and Reaction. Periods of business prosperity and
depression are not man made nor the result of chance; they
come at regular intervals, the same as the seasons, and the same
astronomical laws which govern nature, govern man and all of
man’s activities. When this fact is recognized, man will work

{9}

 

 

--- Page 15 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

in harmony with the forces of nature and not blindly against
them.

At the present time, a planned investment program based on
the laws of nature which govern supply and demand is an
unheard of thing. It is not, however, an impossibility in the near
future. When man turns from disturbing political factors long
enough to see that business volume and the fluctuations of the
Stock Market defy Administrative control, they will begin to
wonder what is the law behind it all. No Administration can
make depression and no Administration can make prosperity.
Business Cycles occur of their own accord at regular intervals
despite the Government. However, by acknowledging the law
of nature behind this theory, administrative heads in the future
can plan ahead for depressions and not be caught in the midst of
prosperity by a changed Business Cycle and a financial panic.
When this sort of preparedness takes place, the time will come
when there are no depressions because man has already prepared
for a rainy day and has more than enough to tide him over lean
years. When the Cycle changes and the Business Curve starts
upward again, man will be able to invest again and like the
farmer watch his seed grow. It is no longer necessary to be wiped
out on the Stock Market. Tat is a sign of ignorance.

{10 }

Chapter H

Business Cycles and Stock Market Trends
1850-1950

THE CALIFORNIA GOLD INFLATION
PROSPERITY PERIOD

pes period takes in the years of 1850 to 1854 inclusively.
Reference to a table called an Ephemeris, which gives the geo-
centric planetary positions for this period, shows that the North
Node is in Leo, the sign which is on the highest point of the
Business Cycle Chart. Since the Node indicates the trend or curve
of business activity and volume as it passes through the respective
twelve signs on the chart, it is easy to see that for business activity
and volume this petiod was characterized by “above normal
prices.”

In 1850 prices rose from Normal to 11 points above Normal
in January, 1851. During 1851 prices began to drop due to
the influence as shown by the conjunction of the planet Saturn
and Uranus, secondary factors, which can distort the Business
Activity Curve from 10% to 20% either way depending upon
the nature of the aspect. This aspect was very unfavorable and
prices dropped in stocks and bonds as well as business until
October, 1851, when these planets had moved out of orb of
each other. Since the Node was still in Leo, indicating that busi-
ness volume would increase as soon as the secondary factor was
out of the way, prices began to go up and prices had a steady
climb through 1832 reaching 10 points ebove normal in business
activity. The year 1853 saw business volume eight points above
normal and the curve going to a high of 15 points above normal
through March, 1854.

{ 11]

 

 

--- Page 16 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE ow BUSINESS VOLUME

4 J
oe

5 o
TR TOM
TTT TESTE TET Ts
CTR ITC Tre
TUT Ie

   

i

|
ll aT

cr

POUT TTT TTS OTT
OUT SUERTE ETAT
TST
WUT i PLETE
TTT eer TTT
THUR TTT
TTT
PTTTURELDAUOUNE CU ULL
TttHrtE BT
TT eT TTT TTT
Se TTttttt
L
[
;

:
TNT
eA
PATCH
PET
Tea THC
TL

PUTT
OM

ne
rr

TTT TT Laker TET |
LAL IIT UO TRTTLTHILH TTT

Wwwac _

ro
fl

[12]

 

a ea rj

PSST-OS8T ‘GOMMd ALTYXdSOWd GIOO VINWOsITY>

McW kirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

In April of 1854, another secondary factor appeared to cause
a temporary business recession. Saturn moved into the sign of
Gemini which miles the United St&tes. This in itself would
cause business volume to recede, but it also happens that the
Node moving backward in its orbit had also gone into the sign
of Gemini. Saturn in conjunction with the North Node caused
the Business Curve to turn downward sharply reaching a low of
four points below Normal in December, 1854. Stock prices also
dropped during this period.

As the North Node goes from Leo to Taurus on the Business
Cycle Chart, it is easy to see that the Curve of Business activity
is going slowly but surely from “Above Normal” to “Normal.”
In other words, in the midst of so-called prosperity the influence
is slowly at work which will swing the trend of business in the
opposite direction, after the Node reaches the sign of Taurus,
which is the transition point, as prices and the Business Curve
work slowly from “Normal” to “Below Normal” in prices.

THE PANIC OF 1857

In June of 1854 the North Node passed in Taurus, which
indicated that the Economic Curve of business was now moving
slowly from Normal to “Below Normal.” The period of passing
through the signs of Taurus and Aries was a Transition Period
and marks the years from 1854 to 1857 as a Transition Eea,
despite the fact that business volume was 10 points above Normal
during the middle of 1856. This was due to the presence of a
favorable secondary factor, Jupiter in Pisces. Pisces is the sign
which governs the topmost poiat on the chart of the New York
Stock Exchange and shows business conditions at large. Jupiter
was also in conjunction with the North Node and with Neptune,
the planetary ruler of Pisces. The combination of these factors
showed the above normal business activity during 1856. Stocks
were up and business was very :

In February, 1857, Saturn was square the North Node, al-
though Jupiter was in conjunction with it. This caused 2 drop
of three points in Business volume and as Saturn was in Cancer

{ 13]

 

--- Page 17 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

 

SEALE OF BUSINESS VOLOME
I ' i + +
o 5 6
TE
COROT RTTERTEN AAU LINN MAIL
PUTT
PET
HR tHe
|

sa T:

ST

BT

MUTE

HALEN TT MUL
PE MU
FETT TT Pe TTT
YU TVELUAAUT ATTEN

PRR

Pm CUTIE
TO
HOE
He

IL
IMGIUIR TATA tI
UU Ti
ie
EET UT

ILM
TORT
TUTTI
TOT TTT
CU

uf
TET Te eee TTT
ET ST TT Ht
SU

 

wae Cc -

{14}

é$81 dO DINVd

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

during all of 1857 it was passing over the Ascendant of the
chart of the New York Stock Exchange, a critical point for show-
ing action on the New York Stock Exchange. Stock prices
dropped all spring and summer and business volume shrank
during this period culminating in the fall in a sharp drop which
carried business volume thirteen points below Normal. This was
known as the Panic of 1857. Economists attribute this Panic
to over development in the West and excessive railroad construc-
tion during this period. The Panic was clearly shown, however,
by the fact that the lunation (conjunction of the Sun and Moon
every twenty-eight days) for September fell in 25 degrees Virgo
in exact opposition to the Mid-heaven of the New York Stock
Exchange and in exact opposition to the North Node, and Nep-
tune also, in the Mid-heaven of this Chart in 27 and 21 degrees
of Pisces respectively.

Referring to the Business Cycle Chart, it is easy to see that
Pisces is the sign next to the lowest for business activity and
prices, and that the Business Curve was now “Below Normal.”

The effects of the Panic of 1857 was felt throughout 1858
with business volume from ten to six points below normal.

In February, 1859, the North Node moved into the sign of
Aquarius, which is the sign on the lowest point of the Business
Cycle Chart. This indicates that the Business Curve was at its
lowest point with prices below normal. However, a glance at the
graph depicting business volume for the period shows that
business hoveted from two points above normal to two points
below normal in activity; therefore, some strong secondary
factor must have been present which indicated that prices and
business volume were up to normal. This was the condition
present during 1859, and it was depicted by Saturn in Leo sextile
Uranus in Gemini. It was during this time that the Atlantic
submarine cable was laid.

This aspect came into force in August, 1858 and pointed to a
rise in business volume from the lows of the Panic of 1857. This
aspect was effective throughout 1859 and indicated that business
activity would reach normal.

[25]

 

--- Page 18 ---
McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE ow BUSINESS VOLOME

+

  
    

Oo<d—

TSP UTTT
ta CTT
AUT

O98/

ZOBL-6S8E “NOISSHUdad NOISSHDES AHL

4987/

ote
: TYLON r

[16]

 

McW¥ hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Neptune, which is one of the planetary rulers or sighificators,
of the New York Stock Exchange, was in 28 degrees Pisces,
the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart during
1860 and trine Jupiter in Cancer on the Ascendant of the Chart.
The ascendant and mid-heaven are two of the most important
angles of the Chart in relation to stock market trends and general
business activity. Since this aspect was favorable, it pointed to a
rise in business generally. The business curve rose five points
above normal through July, 1860. This was the high point of
this secondary trend as Saturn moved into Virgo August 26,
1860, and in this position was approaching a square aspect with
Uranus. This was a signal that the trend had changed and that
the averages of stocks were going down and business activity
with it.

THE SECESSION DEPRESSION

Prices dropped steadily on through the fall of 1860 and
through the spring and summer of 1861 as indicated by the
culmination of a square aspect between Saturn in Virgo and
Uranus in Gemini.

On the Business Cycle Chart, the Node had moved into
Capricorn August 31, 1860, and remained in this sign through
1861, passing into Sagittarius March 19, 1862. The cycle of the
North Node from Aquarius, the Low pointyto Scorpio, the Nor-
mal point, indicated that business activity was below Normal
going to Normal, during this period and with the passing of the
secondary factors of an unfavorable nature, business would
rapidiy go back to Normal.

South Carolina seceded from the Union on Decernber 20, 1860,
and the crash came which was followed by a slump in business,
a drop in commodity prices and a panic in rail issues. This finan-
cial crisis of 1860 and 1861 was the most severe crisis from a
business failure standpoint that this country has ever had, but the
depression did not last long because of the business activity
stimulated by the Civil War, and other industrial activity, which
brought higher prices.

[17 }

 

 

--- Page 19 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

No major planet has ever passed over the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange or in opposition to it without indicat-
ing a change in the major trend of business and stock market
prices. This was indicated during the Secession Depression by
the passage of Neptune over the mid-heaven of the New York
Exchange Chart. During 1861 with business activity 11 points
below normal Saturn and Jupiter were in conjunction in Virgo
in opposition to Neptune in Pisces on the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart. These indicators pointed out
the coming slump in business and when these aspects moved
away from each other, it was an indication that business had
turned upward again. Thus it is seen that two sets of secondaty
factors pointed to the business recession mentioned above. It is
Significant that Railroad shares had a slump in prices when so
many prominent Rails have important planets in the sign of
Pisces. Jupiter in conjunction with Saturn in opposition to Nep-
tune square to Uranus indicated the unfavorable conditions
affecting Rail issues.

When Jupiter moved into Libra August 25, 1862, the bottom
of the Depression had been reached and slowly prices and busi-
ness activity began to improve and the Curve moved upward.
The North Node was in Sagittarius, which indicated on the
Business Cycle Chart that the Curve should be a little below
Normal, if there were no secondary factors present to distort
it either way. In October of 1862 both Saturn and Jupiter had
moved into Libra, a position which was just the reverse of the
preceding indications of lower prices, and it was easy to see from
these favorable indicators that business activity should revert to
Normal during 1863, especially since the North Node had moved
very near to the sign of Scorpio, which represents Norma! levels
on the Business Cycle Chart.

Jupiter in Libra was trine Uranus in Gemini most of 1863 and
this good secondary factor increased prices and the Business
Curve went four points above Normal. In the late fall Mars
moved into Libra, and since Libra is a transition sign for all
planets on the Business Cycle Chart, and Mars is generally an

[ 18 ]

McWhirter I'heory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCMLE OF BUSINESS VOLUME
MA * +
I % i
CUE
TE TUT og
RENT Oy
BPE Ge
ETRE
ree ICAU
Meas
eT
1 AT

+

 
 
 
  
    
     
    
 

    
    
   
    
 

 
  

l
I
1

     
  
  
 

 
   

   

   
   
   
   
   
 

     
  

  

   

$5a/

cost-c98l ‘GOlMddd ALNdSOUd AVA

     
   
  
   

  
 
   

UU eT
te
al
FETT TTT
TOTTI
TTT TTT TTT
TTT TTT
TUTTE
CTT

     
  

   

03

 

    
 
       
 
   
   
     

F539

  
   

 
   
       
      

COTTE
V ] . +
k a

i rr rs I¥HHON te

      

    

[19]

 

 

 

--- Page 20 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

adverse planet when using this method of studying the Business
Curve, 2 slight dip in business activity took place during Decem-

ber.
WAR PROSPERITY

On October 7, 1863, the North Node moved into the sign
of Scorpio, which ts the sign on the Business Cycle Chart that
indicates business activity had reached the Normal level. At the
same time Saturn was rapidly approaching a trine aspect with
Uranus. This was a strong secondary factor present which
would distort the Curve approximately 10%. On the graph
depicting business volume for the period, business activity rose
10% above Normal! This aspect lasted through April, 1864,
when the New Moon of April 6, 1864, fell in 16 degrees Aries
on the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart in
opposition to Saturn in 14 degrees Libra. This indication pointed
to a sharp drop in business activity and stock market prices during
April, which according to the graph, showed a drop of seven
points in Business activity. If the good secondary factor of
Saturn trine Uranus had not still been in force, business activity
would have had a mote severe recession at this time than it did
have, This aspect kept in force indicated that prices would
still be slightly above Normal. They remained from 3 to 4
points above Normal during the remainder of 1864. Commodity
prices were up at this time along with stock and bond prices.

PRIMARY POST WAR DEPRESSION

On January 21, 1865, the depressing planet Saturn moved into
the sign of Scorpio. This was an indication that business activity
was in for a slump, since the North Node was also in Scorpio,
the sign on the Normal angle of the Business Cycle Chart. As
this aspect became exact lasting through October of the same year,
the crash came and business volume tumbled 14 points below
Normal under this strong secondary aspect. Jupiter was also in
opposition to Uranus during this period adding weight to the
above testimony. These indications pointed clearly to the sharp
teaction during the year.

[20]

   

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SOCMLE ~ BOESINESS VOLOME

I + + +

a 5 5

 

An PSHE THTTLL

oll HT
TTC al att HULITG,
LULU
ROT

UTES
CTT RTT
I 19
PET
TUITE UTC
TUT

POU UUAAUURUGRRUOEERUDEAU OER OUOUAOUUAEROUT
AUT Hatt

“3 wut

[ 21}

 

9981-S981 “NOISSHYdHd UVA-LSOd AUVWTdd

 

 

--- Page 21 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

As the North Node moved into the sign of Libra on April
28, 1865, Saturn had also moved back into the sign of Libra

holding the aspect in force until late fall. The North Node’s {

transit into Libra indicated that the Business volume Curve was

now going from Normal to Above Normal, and that if no un-

favorable secondary factors were present to keep the Curve down-
ward, business activity should be slightly Above Normal for this
period.

On September 30, 1865, Saturn moved into Scorpio again, this
time forming a trine aspect with Uranus in Cancer. Prices and
business turned sharply upward with business volume rising 14
points to Normal by the end of February, 1866. This rise in the
Business Curve continued through September, 1866, with the
favorable aspect indicating that business volume would go 10%
above normal, which it did.

As it has been stated before in this astronomic theory of fore-
casting business and stock market trends, as long as a major planet
is passing over the mid-heaven of the New York Exchange Chart,
this planet is the “key" for studying business indications for the
future for as long as the planet transits the mid-heaven. Monthly
trends in the Stock Market can be easily determined by watching
the funations each twenty-eight days. If the lunation falls con-
junction, square, or in opposition to the pianet passing over the
mid-heaven, watch out, for the Stock Market will then react
according to the indications at the lunation, when the Moon
passes over that important point, during the forthcoming month.

This theory of forecasting business trends and stock market
action explains clearly why so many Stock Market crashes and
slumps have come in April and October rather than in other
months of the year. The Sun transits the sign of Aries every
year from March 21 to April 20th, and this is the sign which is
co-ruler with Pisces of the mid-heaven of the Chart of the New
York Stock Exchange. The Sun transits the sign of Libra every
year from September 23rd to October 23rd, and this is the sign
which is in exact opposition to Aries. Whenever there is a
major planet passing through Aries and the lunation falls con-

[ 22 J

McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

junction (as in April) of in opposition to it (as in September
and October) then the Market slumps come.

England is ruled by the sign Aries, and it is significant that
the transits of major planets through this sign or in opposition
to it, affect its business conditions and point out the rise and fall
of its stock prices very clearly. The tie-up between the London
Exchange and Wail Street is shown by the rulership of Aries on
the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart. Slumps
in London have a sympathetic recession here and vice versa.

To return to 1866, history records a financial panic in London
in the spring of that year. Neptune was in 11 degrees Aries in
October of 1866. The lunation for October, 1866, fell in 14
degrees Libra in opposition to Neptune on the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart in square aspect to Uranus in
Cancer and in exact square to the ascendant of the same chart in
14 degrees Cancer. This lunation indicated a slump in business
and stock prices which took the Curve downward ten points by
the end of the year. The latter part of December, 1866, saw a
minor unfavorable aspect between Saturn in 20 degrees Scorpio
and Uranus in 7 degrees Cancer. This was the sesquiquadrate
aspect of 135 degrees. Although not very important usually, it
was strong enough to help keep business activity four points below
notmal accentuating the unfavorable aspect, Neptune square
Uranus and the ascendant, of the Stock Market Chart. This
influence dasted through February, 1867, and was accompanied
by a drop in commodity prices and a decided recession in rail
stock prices.

On November 13, 1866, the North Node moved into the
sign of Virgo and the natural position of the Business Curve
should be slightly above Normal and the trend of business from
“Normal to High.” (The High point being reached as the
North Node transits Leo in 1868 and 1869.)

The North Node remained in Virgo throughout 1867, The
secondary factor, Saturn sesquiquadrate Uranus, was effective
through February, 1867. Then prices rose along with improved
business activity through the spring and summer to three points

{ 23 }

 

--- Page 22 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

above Normal due to the slight aspect, though not close enough
to bring a big rise in business activity, of Saturn trine Uranus.
After August of this year, the Curve turned downward to four
points below Normal through February, 1868, as the sesqui-
quadrate aspect came into force again. After February, 1868,
Business volume increased and by August, 1868, the Business
Curve had risen four points above Normal or a rise of six points
on the graph in five months time. This was due to the fact that
Saturn had moved into Sagittarius and too far away from Uranus
for an aspect to be effective. This indicated that a change in trend
was coming and that it would be upward with the removal of
the secondary factors distorting the Carve at that time. The Busi-
ness Curve confirms this indication. It stayed three to four
points above Normal through the remainder of the year. This
influence carried the Curve upward through June, 1869, to five
points above Normal. By this time Uranus had reached 17 de-
grees Cancer, the Ascendant of the New York Stock Exchange
chart and was in square to Neptune in 19 degrees Artes on the
mid-heaven of this same chart. Prices slowly turned down with
the Business Curve through the summer as Jupiter was in exact
square to the North Node.

On September 6, 1869, the lunation occurred in 13 degrees
Virgo in quincunx aspect to Neptune on the mid-heaven (of
the New York Exchange Chart) and this unfavorable aspect of
exactly 150 degrees indicated the short-lived Panic of 1869,
which occurred on September 24, 1869. This Panic was mostly
a Wall Street affair. Stocks had advanced to high levels from
the long period of speculation since the War and a reaction set
in. Money sates were at their highest level since 1857 and 1860.
Since this Panic occurred on Friday, this slump has gone down
in financial history as the “Black Friday Panic.”

With the passing of the temporary unfavorable aspect, the
Curve began to rise and by June, 1870, had climbed to four points
above Normal. In May of 1870, Jupiter moved into Gemini,
which is the sign ruling the United States. This is a very favor-
able secondary factor and prices should have jumped sharply up

{ 24 ]

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

and carried the Business Curve with it, if there had not been an
unfavorable secondary factor present. The North Node had
moved into Cancer the 22nd of December, 1869, and by June had
reached a conjunction aspect with the revolutionary and disturb-
ing planet Uranus. This aspect caused the Business Curve to
drop five points below normal. By October, 1870, the influence
of this unfavorable secondary factor had waned, Uranus was io
26 degrees Cancer and the North Node was in 14 degrees Can-
cer. (Conjunction aspects are not effective outstde of an orb
of 10 degrees). This fact should be kept in mind for in this
theory of determining the Business and Stock Market trend,
aspects coming into a ten degree range point to changes in trend
many months in advance.

INDUSTRIAL OVER-EXPANSION
PROSPERITY PERIOD

The Business Curve turned sharply upward after October, 1870
and by April, 1871, was standing at six points above normal.
This was the beginning of the three year period known in finan-
cial history as the “Industrial Over-Expansion Prosperity Period.”
Jupiter was in Gemini, the sign ruling the United States, in
favorable aspect (sexti/e 60 degrees) to Neptune in Aries on the
mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange chart and to
Uranus in Cancer on the ascendant of this same chart.

During this period business activity was greatly above normal.
Railroads were expanding and being built everywhere. Most
Rail stocks come under the influence of the Fire Signs, Aries, Leo,
and Sagittarius. Neptune was in Aries at this time in very favor-
able aspect (frime 120 degrees) to Saturn in Sagittarius and to
Jupiter in Gemini (60 degrees-sextile}. Rail stocks experienced
peak prices under these influences.

In May, 1871, Jupiter moved into Cancer and in July of the
same yeat, the North Node moved into Gemini. These were
favorable indications of a booming business period. Both Gemini
and Cancer are the ruling signs of the United States. Whenever

[ 25 }

 

 

--- Page 23 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SOALE on BOSINESS VOLUME
+ +
©

HT pe

  
 
 

    

      
 
   

eH
BT em LT
eS
ROMP
AUTH
ST

   
  

   
    
  
  
 

    
  
 
  
   
  
 

 

CUEALUEATO OGL ARAL
TTT
HUTTE ri
errr LEH a N
HUTT TTT ra TTT TTT
HUTT: Pre SETANTETETELEE ELEY

TTT Tidal TERT
ETE TT
Het HH Hed fi PUTT

  
    

    

 

 

  
  
   
      
    
   

       
   

      
     
     

 

  
  
 

   
 

 
  

   
  

   
   
    
     

    

   

   

    
   
   

whol i ha

  

[ 26 }

gGomad ALNMAdSOuwd NOISNVdIXa YHAO TVIEISNONI

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

beneficent planets or the North Node transits these signs there is
always improved business activity, unless some very strong un-
favorable secondary factor is present to hold the Curve downward.

The Business Volume Curve stood at six points above normal
from April through November of 1871. In December, the Carve
turned upward again rising sharply through January, February,
and March of 1872. This upturn was pointed out by the fact that
Jupiter was in conjunction with Uranus in Cancer, a strong
secondary factor which indicated bullish prices, and lifted the
Business Curve to 11 points above normal.

In April, 1872, Neptune was still on the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart in 23 degrees Aries; Uranus 27
degrees Cancer was in conjunction with Jupiter in 22 degrees
Cancer and Saturn was in 21 degrees Capricorn. This was an un-
usual planetary arrangement with four major planets all placed
on angles of the New York Stock Exchange Chart and in square
aspect and in opposition to each other. If the primary Curve of
Business had not been above normal during this period, aug-
mented by a strong secondary factor of Jupiter conjunction
Uranus in Cancer, this combination of aspects would have pointed
to a slump in business. As it was, however, the North Node
was in Gemini, a very favorable factor, which pointed to an
above normal position for the Business Curve and in con-
sequence only a slight recession took place while these aspects
lasted.

The lunation of April 8, 1872, occurred in 18 degrees Aries
conjunction Mars and Neptune in Aries, the two planetary rulers
of the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart. This
lunation indicated the slight recession which caused the Business
Curve to drop three points. This recession lasted until the last of
June when Uranus and Jupiter both moved into Leo. This placed
both planets in favorable aspect (60 degrees-sextile) to the North
Node in Gemini, This caused the Business Curve to tura upward
with boom proportions. Jupiter in conjunction with Uranus
doubled the influence of the favorable secondary factor, Jupiter
sextile the Node, and the Curve turned sharply upward through

[27 }

 

--- Page 24 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

the remainder of 1872. The Business Curve reached the top of
this boom in January, 1873, when it stood at 15 points above
normal.

On January 28, 1873, the North Node moved into Taurus, one
of the transition points on the Business Cycle Chart and this was
a definite indication that the trend had turned downward for a
period of six years of the time it took for the North Node to
pass through the signs Taurus, Aries, Pisces, and Aquarius, the
last being the sign on the low point of the Business Cycle Chast.
(See Chart)

From June 4, 1868, to January 28, 1873, the North Node had
passed through Leo, (the top point of the Business Cycle Chart),
Cancer and Gemini. The Business Curve was above normal dur-
ing this period with the trend slowly approaching normal. When
the Norma] point was reached, as the North Node moved into
Taurus, the cycle had definitely changed. The Curve had now
swung downward. This was the beginning of a period in finan-
cial history known as the “Secondary Post-War Depression”
which lasted for a period of six years.

THE SECONDARY POST-WAR DEPRESSION
PERIOD

On March 14, 1873, Saturn moved into the sign of Aquarius
forming a vety unfavorable aspect (opposition 180 degrees) with
Uranus in 2 degrees Leo. This secondary factor indicated that this
country was due for a financial depression of large proportions; a
fact which was indicated six months in advance of the actual
crash on September 18, 1873, following the failures of the then
well-known firms of Kenyon, Cox and Ca., the New York Ware-
house and Security Co. and Jay Cook and Co. This was one of
the worst panics since the War Between the States as it was both
a commercial and a Stock Exchange panic. On September 20,
1873, the New York Stock Exchange closed its doors for the
first time in history and remained closed for ten days.

Was the crash of September 18, 1873, predictable in advance?
Yes, by this theory of forecasting the Stock Market, it was.

[ 28 ]

 

SOALE OF BUSINESS VOLUME

b '
aI

IN HLL
Su
NTT

a inn

TUT a
Tete
UAT rie
TUTE Te
Hh ST Ht
EE
HER HEEL 1
UT eT
TNL
PTT
UIA

=—" ll a
ee eee ee

— ,

,

— 5 i
1 | |

TUTTLE
TTT
TT
ITE
| HTT N

 

r ML
IAULOULT UL ATAAUOATAASTIEENES
TUTTI
RESTA
PETC CTEETTTTTAT LAT T
ENTITIES
PERLITE

; ANT
TUT ea PE He

AM IN

HT Tan em iT
Y
TUTTE ©

[ 29 J

6481-€281T NOISSaaddd AVA-LSOd AYVANODUS

 

--- Page 25 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Monthly trend changes are pointed out at the lunation which
occurs each month at an interval of twenty-eight days. The funa-
tion is the conjunction of the Sun and Moon or the “New Moon”
each month. September 18, 1873, occurred three days before the
lunation for September; therefore, the crash of September 18,
1873, was shown in the preceding lunation for August, which fell
on August 22, 1873, in 29 degrees Leo in square aspect (90 de-
grees) to Mars, (one of the planetary rulers of the mid-heaven
of the New York Stock Exchange Chart) and in square aspect to
Pluto and the North Node which were also in conjunction with
each other. Any planet in conjunction with the North Node has
a marked effect on business activity and Stock Market trends
and if it is present it is a secondary factor that must always be
taken into account when analyzing business conditions or the
Stock Market averages.

The presence of this secondary factor, Pluto in conjunction
with the North Node, indicated a decided change coming in the
trend of business and Stock Market prices. Taurus is one of the
signs of transition on the Business Cycle Chart and since it is the
sign showing the trend from “Normal” to “Below Normal” busi-
ness, this aspect corroborated other testimony that the country was
on the verge of a financial crisis accompanied by a slump on the
New York Stock Exchange. The crash, however, did not come
until the Moon passed over 29 degrees Leo which occurred on
September 18, 1873. The Business Curve dropped during the
year from a high in March of 15 points above normal to five
points below normal.

The Business Curve continued to move downward all during
1874 and 1875, until at the end of 1875 business activity was
standing at 15 points below normal. During the first half of
1874, Uranus and Saturn were in opposition to each other and
in square aspect (90 degrees) to the North Node and Neptune,
one of the rulers of the New York Stock Exchange Chart.

On August 16, 1874, the North Node moved into the sign
of Aries and the economic curve was downward in trend until the
“Below Normal” point was reached on September 22, 1877, when

[ 30]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

the Notth Node moved into Aquarius, which is the sign on the
low point of the Business Cycle Chart.

Rai! stocks were at a low ebb during 1874. Cotton and wheat
prices also were depressed and a record number of failures took
place. During October, November and December of 1874, the
North Node was in conjunction with Neptune, an unfavorable
secondary factor which was manifested in a two point drop of
the Business Curve which was carried through 1875.

In the fall of 1873 the Business Activity Curve turned down-
ward six points as Mars and Jupiter formed unfavorable aspects
to the unfavorable secondary factor (Saturn in Aquarius in oppo-
sition to Uranus in Leo), already in existence. Mars was in con-
junction with Saturn opposition Uranus, and Jupiter was square
aspect to al] three planets.

The depression carried through 1876 and 1877, as the Nosth
Node entered Aquarius, the low point on the Business Cycle
Chart. The North Node in Aquarius was in opposition to Uranus
in Leo and this secondary unfavorable factor caused the Business
Curve to drop around 314, points bringing business activity to
13 points below normal through January and February, 1878,
while the aspect was in effect.

In the spring of 1878, the Business Curve moved upward four
points as the unfavorable secondary factors disappeared. In the
fall of 1878, the favorable secondary factor, Jupiter in Aquarius
in conjunction with the North Node, lifted the curve another
point and one-half which brought the curve between 7 and 8
points below normal by the end of the year.

During January, February and March, 1879 the Business
Curve receded four points as Neptune in Taurus was square the
Node in Aquarius. This brought business activity down to
t1 points below normal.

On April 13, 1879, the North Node passed out of Aquarius
into the sign of Capricorn which indicated that the Business
Cycle was now in a slow uptrend swing from “Below Normal”
to “Normal” as is shown on the Business Cycle Chart. The
normal or transition point was reached when the North Node

[31]

 

--- Page 26 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting
1882. | ' i +
When the North Node moved into Capricom in April, 1879, |

oOF—

it formed a very favorable aspect (Mine 120 degrees) with the MMMM TT Tm.
powerful planet Pluto. The presence of this strong secondary TTT ln
factor indicated a sharp upturn in business activity and this | TEETH td
factor carried the Business Curve from 11 points below normal | HT OCTET CCT Le TT |
to normal by August of the same year. This upturn in business | LETTE TTT}
was the beginning of a three year boom, known in financial | TET mE
history as the “Gold Resumption Prosperity Period.” | HE aT TTT TTT
THE GOLD RESUMPTION PROSPERITY
PERIOD 1879-1883 CTT | TTT

Although the influence of the powerful secondary factor, Pluto COTTE se Ai fA
trine the North Node, diminished in October, 1879, three other TTT TERT TROLL
favorable secondary factors were present, Uranus, Neptune and T "
Mars trine (120 dygress) the Nowh Nowe with Mars-and Nep- THEE ETT
ane in conjunction with each other and in favorable aspect to TTT TTT

Uranus. The Business Curve, as a result of this concentrative
power, continued to rise through the fali of 1879 and by Decem-
ber stood at nine points above normal. This was a 20 point rise
in business activity in nine months.

The Business Curve rose two points through January and
February, 1880. In March, 1880, an unfavorable secondary
factor, Saturn square (90 degrees) the North Node, came into
effect. The Business Curve dropped six points through Septem-
ber, 1880. Saturn was also in sesqui-quadrate aspect to Uranus
duting these five months. This combination of unfavorable sec-
ondary factors would have caused a greater drop in business
activity had not Uranus also been in trine aspect (120 degrees)
to the North Node which was a very favorable secondary factor
present that kept business volume above normal.

Stock and grain prices went lower under the slightly unfavor-
able aspect Saturn sesqui-quadrate Uranus. Saturn passed through
Aries from May, 1878 to April, 1881. In this sign position, it .
passed over the mid-heaven of the chart of the New York Stock penn ames

€88l-6L81 ‘GOMMd ALNGdSOUd NOLLAWISTa TIOO

 

[32] | [33]

 

--- Page 27 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Exchange and during this period affected the major trend of the
Stock Market by keeping stock prices lower than they ordinarily
would have been during this two and one-half year period.

On October 31, 1880, the North Node moved into Sagittarius
forming a favorable trine aspect (120 degrees) with Saturn,
which in itself was in semi-sextile aspect (30 degrees) to the
powerful planet Pluto. This combination of favorable secondary
factors sent the Business Curve upward seven points through the
fall and January, 1881, at which time the Business Curve was
standing at 12 points above normal. There was a decline of three
points from this business prosperity high through May, 1881.

In April, 1881, both Saturn and Jupiter, which were in con-
junction in Aries, moved into the sign of Taurus where they were
still in conjunction with each other, besides being in orb of an
approaching conjunction aspect with Neptune, also in Taurus,
and in orb of a trine aspect (120 degrees) with Uranus. This
was an unusual configuration of planets since five major planets
were in earthy or materialistic signs. They were Jupiter, Saturn,
Neptune and Pluto in Taurus and Uranus in Virgo.

Through history and research it bas been found that when
several major planets are in earth signs at the same time, that
men’s minds turn toward the getting of material things in life
and, therefore, business activity and volume increases.

Business activity stayed around 11 points above normal
throughout the year of 1881. There was a two point drop in
the summer and fall as Uranus was in square aspect (90 degrees)
to the North Node. This unfavorable secondary factor would
have pointed out more of a drop in the Business Curve, if four
major planets had not been in favorable aspect to each other,
while all four planets were in earth signs—three of these planets,
Neptune, Saturn and Jupiter being in the financial sign of
Taucus.

During January and February, 1882, the Business Curve recov-
ered its two point joss and the top of this rise was 11 points
above normal where the Business Curve remained through March

and part of April.

{ 34]

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

On April 22, 1882, the expansive planet Jupiter moved into
the sign of Gemini, the sign which has part rulership over the
United States, together with the sign of Cancer. At the same time
Jupiter formed a square (90 degree) aspect with the North Node.
This caused the curve to turn downward slightly. On May 19,
1882, the North Node moved into Scorpio, the sign on the
normal point of the Business Cycle Chart. As Saturn was still
in Taurus, it formed at this time an opposition (180 degree)
aspect with the North Node which lasted through August, 1882.
This unfavorable secondary factor caused the Business Curve to
drop six points.

Through the fall the Business Curve turned upward and tfe-
gained four points of its loss by December. In January, 1883, the
Business Curve turned downward and marked the beginning of
the long, and slow depression from 1883 to 1886 which has
come to be known in history as the “Depression of 1884.”

THE DEPRESSION OF 1884

When the North Node moved into Scorpio, May 19, 1882, the
Business Cycle Chart indicated that business conditions were
passing through a transition period which would last until June
22, 1885, corresponding with the time taken for the passage of
the North Node through the signs of Scorpio and Libra, transi-
tion signs on the Business Cycle Chart. The normal trend of
business volume following this transition period was from “nor-
mal to high” if no unfavorable secondary factors were present
to distort the Curve below the normal or transition point. Dur-
ing the Depression of 1884, business volume decreased to 13
points below normal; therefore, one or more unfavorable secon-
dary factors must have been present during this period.

Saturn and Neptune in conjunction in Taurus were moving in
opposition (180 degrees) to the North Node in Scorpio in
December, 1882, and January, 1883, and these factors precipt-
tated the drop in the Curve which went from nine points above
normal to three points above normal by the end of August.

On May 24, 1883, the price depressing planet Saturn moved

[ 35]

 

--- Page 28 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCMLE or BUSINESS VOLUME

5

if ai I
TTT eed
lt TTT
TUTTE TT
Het =

UTE TTT
CT
SU:
Ht Tan
POUT
AU

(- wud

{ 36 J

 

3

Os +

&S&S/

FSE8/
ssl AO NO GSdaddad

SEE/

McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

into the sign of Gemini which governs the United States. This
unfavorable secondary factor always affects business conditions
adversely when it transits the signs ruling the United States.

Saturn has passed through the sign of Gemini three times
since 1850 and each time the United States has suffered under-
depressed business conditions and hard times. The Business Curve
moved downward during the summer and fall of 1883 under
this influence. By December the Curve was standing at four
points below normal.

On December 7, 1883, the North Node moved into Libra. The
Business Cycle Chart indicates that the normal position of the
business activity Curve should be slightly above normal due to
the fact the sign of Libra ts slightly above Scorpio, ,which is the
sign representing the normal point in this system of forecasting
the trend of business. Favorable and unfavorable secondary fac-
tors, it has been found, can distort the curve from its logical and
correct position by as much as 20% depending on the strength
of the secondary factor or combination of factors involved.
Saturn required two and one-half years to transit a sign and its
passage through Gemini should correspond with a two and one-
half year period of depressed business conditions for this coun-
try. This is the case as can readily be seen by reference to the
diagram of this depression.

Rail and Industrial stocks declined in price during all of 1884.
Another unfavorable secondary factor came into play during the
summer when Saturn in Gemini formed a square aspect (90
degrees) with Uranus in Virgo. The effects of this aspect were
felt through the spring of 1886.

On April 30, 1884, J. R. Keene failed. This started the crash.
The lunation of April 25, 1884, fell in 5 degrees Taurus in square
aspect (90 degrees) to Mars, one of the rulers of the mid-heaven
of the Chart of the New York Stock Exchange. Mars was in 11
degrees Leo, When the Sun had moved to 10 degrees Taurus
on April 30, which made the aspect less than a degree from being
exact, and the Moon was in Cancer passing over the ascendant of
the Exchange Chart, the panic started.

[ 37 J

 

--- Page 29 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

On May 6, 1884, Grant and Ward, as weil as Marine National
Bank, failed. At this time the Sun was in 15 degrees Taurus in
exact square aspect (90 degrees) to Marts in 15 degrees Leo with
the Moon in Libra, the sign on the lowest point of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart. A money panic occurred on May
12th and 13th, followed on the 14th by the issuance of Clearing
House Certificates. Fisk and Hatch and the Metropolitan Bank
of New York failed May 15, 1884. On May 12th and 13th—
the days of the money panic—the Sun was in conjunction with
Neptune, the other ruler of the mid-heaven of the Exchange
Chart, and the Sun and Neptune were in square aspect to Mars,
while Mars and Neptune the two rulers of the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart were in square aspect to each
other while the Moon was in opposition aspect (180 degrees) to
Saturn in Gemini. This series of unfavorable secondary factors
clearly indicated the financial trouble of this period.

It is a noticeable fact that the Moon is usually in one of the
angles of the New York Stock Exchange Chart when a panic
or slump occurs. If the lunation indicates a change in the trend
of the Stock Market for the following month, watch carefully
for the days when the Moon passes through Artes, Cancer, Libra
and Capricorn. The drop usually will occur on one of these days.

During the summer and fall of 1884, the unfavorable secon-
dary factory, Saturn in Gemini square Uranus in Virgo, was so
close that business volume shrank leaving the Business Curve
standing at 13 points below normal by January of 1885. The
force of this unfavorable aspect was felt throughout the spring
and summer of 1885.

On June 25, 1885, the North Node moved into the sign of
Virgo, indicating that the natural position of the Business Curve
should be above normal, if it were not distorted by an unfavor-
able secondary factor. The influence of the Saturn-Uranus square
aspect began to lessen during November and December, 1885,
and by the end of the year the Business Curve had moved upward
$ix points.

The Business Curve continued its climb through the spring of

[ 38 J

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

1886 and by June had moved to four points above normal. This
was a nine point rise in business activity in six months. This
rise continued throughout the year and reached 11 points above
normal by March, 1887.

On January 13, 1887, the North Node moved into Leo, the
siga on the high point of the Business Cycle Chart where it
remained through July 30, 1888. This indicated that business
volume and activity should be at a high level, at least 10 to 15
points above normal, if there wete no unfavorable secondary
factors present to distort the Curve. However, Saturn and
Uranus were within eight degrees of each other and moved
closer through July, 1887. The Business Curve correspondingly
dropped from eleven to two points above normal during this

riod.

P On August 19, 1887, Saturn moved into Leo, and for three
months was within slight orb of a very favorable or trine (120
degrees) aspect with Uranus. The Business Curve rose six points,
dropping in December as Saturn and Uranus moved out of orb.
At the same time the depressing planet Saturn moved within orb
of a conjunction with the North Node, which governs business
conditions. This immediately turned the Business Curve down-
ward through July, 1888. There was a drop in business volume
from seven points above normal to two points below normal or
the Business Curve turned downward nine points altogether.

THE RAILROAD PROSPERITY PERIOD
1888-1892

The North Node moved from Leo to the sign of Cancer on
August 1, 1888. The Business Curve was now starting slowly
downwatd toward the normal point which it reached in Septem-
ber, 1891. In the interim the North Node passed through
Cancer and Gemini, two signs closely related to the affairs of
the United States. During the fall of 1888, the Curve rose to stx
points above normal as Saturn in Leo and Uranus in Libra were
in favorable sextile (60 degrees) aspect to each other. In Jan-
uaty, 1889, Uranus turned retrograde, that is, started moving

{ 39 ]

 

--- Page 30 ---
i
Gs
QO

 

    

McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

VEMLE o~* SOSINESS VOLOME
+
Oo

TM HTT
TET

T
| |
AT bg Ben TTT
TTT eg ST Lat
TTT bie} et
TT
UE
ETT
tf

UT cL f
HT a lobe
ttt

UT
HH

igi an

ITSP ELT

TT ey tT

Ltt Lt aT | | er
LUT
TEE
SE

WwHUon 5

{ 40 ]

Sesg/ \*

76ST-S881T ‘GONTMd ALMAdSOUd IVOWIIVA

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

backward in its orbit. At the same time it formed an exact square
aspect (90 degrees) with the North Node, which was unfavor-
able. This caused the Business Curve to drop five points through
June of 1889, at which time Uranus turned direct in tts motion
and started moving away from the North Node as the Business
Curve stood at only one point above normal.

The Curve moved up sharply through the summet and fall of
1889 as Saturn in Leo was in close sextile (60 degrees) aspect
with Uranus in Libra. The powerful planet Pluto was in cop-
junction with Neptune, one of the New York Stock Exchange
planetary rulers.

Saturn moved into the sign of Virgo October 7, 1889, forming
a favorable sextile aspect (60 degrees) with the North Node
through December. At the end of the year the Business Curve
stood at nine points above normal.

The year 1890 opened with business activity well above nor-
mal. The Business Curve from January to May moved from nine
points above norma! to 14 points above normal, a total rise of
five points in five months.

On February 19, 1890, the North Node moved into Gemini,
which (together with Cancer) rules the United States. This move
brought the North Node within orb of a favorable trine aspect
with Uranus in Libra. Saturn moved back into Leo on February
25th. This brought into effect a strong favorable relationship
between Saturn, Uranus and the North Node. Uranus was trine
the North Node and Saturn was sextile the North Node, while
being in favorable aspect to each other. The Business Curve,
therefore, stood at 13 points above normal in May. It would have
been only slightly above normal in its natural position without
the presence of the favorable secondary factors which pushed the
curve upward.

From June through August of 1890, the Business Curve
dropped four points due to the fact that Saturn moved into the
sign of Virgo where it came in orb of an unfavorable square
aspect with Neptune and Pluto in conjunction in Gemini. This
strong unfavorable secondary factor would have forced the Busi-

[ 41 ]

 

 

--- Page 31 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ness Curve lower if Uraous had not been in favorable trine aspect
(120 degrees) to the North Node at the same time. Through ;

r and October, the Business Curve climbed back two |
points when Saturn moved out of orb of the square aspect with |

Neptune and Pluto.

In November, 1890, Saturn formed an unfavorable aspect with !

the North Node. This unfavorable factor pointed out the busi-
ness crisis which lasted through June, 1891, and which is known
in financial history as the “Baring Crisis.” This crisis was pre-
cipitated in England by the failure of Baring Brothers. The Busi-
ness Curve dropped from 12 points above normal to seven points
below normal—a total drop of 19 points in six months.

BARING CRISIS—1891

Stock prices declined sharply during this period and com-
modity prices were the lowest since the War between the States.

In May, 1891, the Business Curve moved sharply upward as the
North Node and Saturn moved out of orb of the unfavorable
square aspect between them.

From January to the end of June, 1891, Saturn in Virgo
formed a slightly unfavorable aspect with Uranus. This semi-
square aspect (45 degrees) added weight to the unfavorable as-
pect between Saturn and the North Node in force at the time of
the Baring Crisis.

Since the powerful planet Pluto was in conjunction with Nep-

tune, co-ruler of the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Ex-—
change, and the North Node, the Business Curve turned sharply |

upward in May and reached 13 points above normal, a level which
it maintained through October. A drop of two points in the
Business Curve occurred in November due to the fact that the
North Node no longer was in conjunction with Pluto and Nep-
tune.

The North Node moved into Taurus on September 10, 1891.
Since Taurus is the sign on the normal or transition point of the

Business Cycle Chart, the movement of the North Node into |

{ 42 ]

 

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE OF BUSINESS VOLUME
, £ gk
PUTO
STH eerste HH TITER

 

OL+

TTA ATT TTT EE
TUUUUUINUUTTTRST LLL
TTT MMT EET -
: TUS RU ITT
ETE KO
ean
aS

1681 ‘SISRED ONTIVA

a os 17HeO

{ 43 ]

 

--- Page 32 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Taurus indicated a change in the Business Curve for several years |
to come. The primary or major cycle of business was in a transi- jf
tion period lasting until March 28, 1893, when the North Node |
moved into Aries indicating that the trend of the Business Curve |
was moving from normal to low and that the business cycle was {
moving downward for four years until the North Node moved out |
of the sign of Aquarius on November 22, 1897. Aquarius is the |
low point on the Business Cycle Chart and the Business Curve |
did not start upward until after that point had been reached. The —

North Node passed through Aquarius from May 4, 1896, to No-
vember 22, 1897.

On October 22, 1891, the fiery planet Mars moved into the
sign of Libra where it remained through December 7th of the

same year. Libra is the sign on the fourth or lowest angle of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart and also a transition sign on

the Business Cycle Chart; therefore, it is particularly sensitive to |
planetary transits. Mars usually depresses the Curve slightly as it

passes through Libra; in this case the Curve dropped two points.

The Curve turned upward three points through December, ;
1891, and January, 1892, reaching a high in Februaty of 14 points

above normal,

From March until August, 1892, Saturn in Virgo moved in
opposition aspect to the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Ex-
change in 28 degrees Pisces. This caused an 11 point drop in
the Business Curve during this period, which marked the end of
the Railroad Prosperity Period,

There was a recovery of five points through the fall of 1892 |
from the low point of August which had carried business activity |
to two points above normal. In December the Business Curve |
stood at eight points above normal. This was due to the slightly |
favorable semi-sextile aspect (30 degrees) between Saturn in |
Libra and Uranus in Scorpio. Stock Market prices rose under this |
favorable influence. Business activity dropped one point during |
January and February of 1893, but the Business Curve rose three |

points through April, reaching a high of 10 points above normal,
which was the top level reached before the Panic of 1893.

[ 44 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

THE PANIC OF 1893-1895

This financial crisis in the United States was precipitated in
May by the failure of the Chemical National Bank of Chicago and
others, including The National Cordage Company. The Business
Curve plummeted from 10 points above normal to 20 points be-
low normal. This was a drop of 30 points in business activity
from May to August of 1893. Stocks dropped sharply in value,
especially Industrials which were off as much as 30 points in the
Industrial Averages. |

The sharp and irregular depression of 1893 came at a time
when prices were the lowest they had ever been in the economic
history of this country. Crop failures both in 1893 and 1894 were
numerous.

The North Node was in 28 degrees Aries and moving back-
ward over the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange dur-
ing May, 1893. Pluto and Neptune were in conjunction in Ge-
mini, the sign which is co-significator of the United States, and
together they were forming an unfavorable semi-square aspect
(45 degrees) to the North Node. These secondaty factors in-
dicated the financial crisis affecting this country during this period.
The Business Cycle Curve had started downward and the un-
favorable secondary factors present depressed the curve 20%.
(All secondary factors, favorable or unfavorabie, bave the power
to inflate or deflate the normal trend of the Business Curve from
1 fo 20% depending upon the strengib of the secondary factor
involved.)

Any planet (or the Nodes which in this method of forecasting
have the strength of planets and are considered as such) which
passes over the mid-heaven or 10th angle of the New York Stock
Exchange Chart always indicates in advance a coming definite
change in trend of Stock Market prices; and if the planet is un-
favorable, it indicates a financial panic or business crisis. These
warning signals are always given months in advance. Any trader
buying and selling on these signals is the master of economic law
instead of its victim.

[ 45 }

 

--- Page 33 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SOMLE OF SUSINESS VOLUME

      
  

; ok &
UT
UT
LTT
: SHA
TUTTE
ATT

AUT
Ah eT
Hit

. I
Le TO TET:
HH |
| iit

I
oa N
0 0

  
    
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  

   
 
       
  
      
 
 
   

     
    
 

   
   
 

    
 
  
 

 
 

Hl
HT 6
TnL g
™ Og

 

 
  
  
    
     
   

HIN
TIS
TH eT
UT RCELEET TTT a HUTT
ATT eA

    

   

“~

     
             
   

HPP TE ett eld a et
aoe

 
   

VWHHON

1 46 ]

S681-C68T JO DINVd

McWhirter Theory of Steck Market Forecasting

From September, 1893 to April, 1894, the Business Curve rose
from 20 points below normal to 14 points below normal. This
was a total of six points rise as the unfavorable semi-square aspect
(45 degrees) between the North Node in Aries and Pluto and
Neptune in Gemini moved into a favorable sextile (60 degrees)
angle, In April, 1894, the Business Curve dropped to 20 points
below normal. Saturn at this time was in 22 degrees Libra in
opposition aspect (180 degrees) to the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart. The lunation for April, 1894, fell
in 16 degrees Aries in the mid-heaven of the Chart in opposition
{180 degrees) to Saturn. This unfavorable secondary influence
caused stock prices to drop sharply.

In May, 1894, the funation fell in 14 degrees Taurus in opposi-
tion (180 degrees) aspect to Uranus. The adverse affect of this
lunation kept the Business Curve down through May.

On June 3, 1894, the Iunation fell in 12 degrees Gemini in
conjunction with Neptune, Pluto and Jupiter and in square aspect
(90 degrees) with Mars, the co-ruler of the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart. This unfavorable aspect of
Mars kept stock prices down as well as general business condi-
tions; however, recovery factors were at work and when the tem-
porary effects of this lunation (28 days) were over the Business
Curve took a sharp turn upward. This was due to the presence of
the expansive planet Jupiter in conjunction with the powerful
planets Pluto and Neptune in the sign of Gemini, which strongly
influences the Linited States. Stocks and bonds rose under these
favorable secondary factors and Industrial Averages had approxi-
mately a 20 point rise in a year’s time.

From July through December, 1894, the Business Curve rose
sharply to five points below normal. This was a 15% increase in
business activity during this period and preceded the period
known in history as “The Recovery of 1895.”

THE RECOVERY OF 1895
On October 16, 1894, the North Node moved into Pisces and
reference to the Business Cycle Chart shows that the nermal trend

[ 47 }

 

 

--- Page 34 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SOMALE OF BUSINESS VOLUME

‘ j NORMA +
a 6 O

+
0

o
UT
WEE
AT
TTT
AT |
UUMEDUURMETRUUUEEUELIERGEL
PEATE
HOUT
TOUTE
TOT
TOT
TOE RTT
PE em
HU: TA TOUT
HUTS

HUE eT
LUT tT

:

.

|
: :
LTT a TTT | |

l

[

[

|

| TT ERS TENTH
TT
|

LT
TOE
HO
MT
WLU

a a
7 -

hye

er

 

[48]

if

$681 dO AWTAOOTH

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

of the Curve was slowly moving lower. The powerful secondary
factor, Pluto in conjunction with Neptune in the sign of Gemini,
which rules the United States moved the Business Curve upward
to nearly four points below normal. Jupiter was also in Cancer
during the fall (Cancer is the other sign of the Zodiat which
with Gemini rules the United States), and Jupiter in this position
aids rising prices. .

In January, 1895, the Business Curve dropped five points due
to the fact that Jupiter moved back into the sign of Gemini and
formed an unfavorable square aspect (90 degrees) with the North
Node. This aspect held the Business Curve down through April
when Jupiter moved out of Gemini and into Cancer again.

In April, 1895, the Business Curve started upward on a 15
point rise which reached six points above nocmal by September as
Uranus was in a favorable trine aspect (120 degrees) to the
North Node. The North Node came into an unfavorable square
(90 degrees) aspect with Pluto and Neptune in September and
these unfavorable secondary factors stopped the rise and caused
the Business Curve to drop slightly through the fall. In the
meantime the price-depressing planet Saturn moved to an uf-
favorable. conjunction aspect with the powerful governmental
planet Uranus. This aspect became close enough to become effec-
tive in January and February, 1896, which marked the beginning
of the “Silver Campaign Depression.”

THE SILVER CAMPAIGN DEPRESSION

1896-1897

Saturn and Uranus were in conjunction aspect during this en-
tire depression. The nomination of William Jennings Bryan,
Democrat, and the free silver campaign, did much toward bring-
ing about this panic, as there was feat that the gold standard
would be abolished. It is significant that Jupiter (raler of the
Nation's finances}, was in Leo (the sign ruling Gold), during
1896. This planetary position alone indicated an adherence to
the gold standard which resulted in the defeat of Bryan and the
election of McKinley.

[ 49 §

 

--- Page 35 ---
MecW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE on BUSINESS VYOLOME

   
 
   
   
 
 
  

TTT MTT
TMT THT ULE
TUTTLE UCU
CCITT CTI TET
UUTEEEUCTTCOATTE CCE ITT Ser
POOCCUUOTUT TTT RU CTC
ATTIC LETPTT EEE

TIT ero uC

_— NEEL UT

O¢c+

+
6

        

  
   
   
 
  
 

 

   

 
 
 
      
 

TCP
PETA
TLATEGHITTHILIN )
tt

 

  
     

  
   
  
 

HU
eM TRUITT ILI /
a gt aL Ut
; Lem

 
  

AL HERRERA Hr it
i r
5 io
rd = |

m TWwrrat

    
   
  

  
 
    
 

  

  
 

      
        

     

  

{ 50 ]

L681-9681 ‘NOISSHUdTd NOIVINYD YWHATIS

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Rails suffered a drastic decline in this depression while Indus-
trial averages reached the lowest point since the War between
the States. Also during this year (1896) crops were poor and
commodity prices stood at the lowest point since 1869.

On May 4, 1896, the North Node moved into Aquarius, the
sign on the “Low’ angle of the Business Cycle Chart where it
remained until November 22, 1897. The passage of the North
Node through Aquarius marked the end of the downward trend
of the Business Curve and the Business Cycle began slowly to
swing upward from the Low Point to Normal.

When the North Node moved into Aquarius it slowly ap-
proached an unfavorable square aspect (90 degrees) with Uranus
and Saturn in conjunction in Scorpio. This unfavorable secondary
factor combined with Uranus’ and Saturn’s unfavorable influence,
depressed the Curve 18 points. Jupiter in Leo was also in an
unfavorable square aspect (90 degrees) to Uranus and Satum;
and in unfavorable opposition aspect (180 degrees) to the North
Node.

Jupiter moved out of Leo into Virgo September 28, 1896, and
this transit lifted the Curve slightly from the low point of August
and September when stack prices and business activity reached
their lowest level since the War between the States.

Neptune and the powerful planet Pluto in Gemini, although
7 degrees apart, were in otb of a conjunction aspect and this
powerful secondary factor, in the sign which co-rules the United
States, lifted the Business Curve 6 points by January, 1897.

During January and February of 1897, the Business Curve
rose two more points where it stood at 10 points below normal.
In March, 1897, however, the Curve dropped back to 12 points
below normal as Saturn turned Retrograde in motion which was a
retarding influence on the Curve,

In April and May, 1897, the North Node formed a favorable
trine aspect (120 degrees) with the powerful planet Pluto. This
aspect lifted the Business Curve slightly which became a sharp
upturn in August when the expansive planct Jupiter moved in
sextile aspect (60 degrees) to Saturn and Uranus in conjunction

[51]

 

--- Page 36 ---
McWhirter Theory of Steck Market Forecasting

in Scorpio. This combination of secondary factors exerted a fa-
vorable influence which caused the Curve to rise six points in
August and by the end of October the Curve stood at two points
below the normal line.

On November 22, 1897, the North Node passed out of Aqua-
tius, the sign on the'low point of the Business Cycle Chart, into
the sign of Capricorn. The Business Curve was now on @ slow
long swing upward from low to normal business activity. As the
Node moved into Capricorn it formed a favorable sixty degree
angle with Uranus in Scorpio and this favorable secondary factor
took the Business Curve three points above normal through Feb-
raaty, 1898. Jupiter was also in conjunction with the North Node
during January and February, 1898.

During alf of 1898 the Business Curve remained close to the
normal line. In May the Curve was 1 point below normal; in
June, 1 point above normal; in July, 2 points below normal; in
October, 1 point below normal; and in December, 1 point above
normal. Although the normal position of the Business Curve
was below normal, the fact that Jupiter was in a favorable sixty
degree angle (sextile aspect) with both Saturn and Uranus, this
secondary factor lifted the Curve to the normal point during
1898.

During 1899 the Business Curve rose steadily from 1 point
above normal to 11 points above normal at the end of the year.
This was due to the favorable aspect between Jupiter and Uranus
to the North Node. Jupiter and Uranus were in a 30 degree angle
(semi-sextile aspect) to each other, while Uranus was in sem-
sextile (30 degrees) aspect to the North Node and Jupiter was
in a favorable sextile aspect (60 degrees) to the North Nade,
These aspects lasted through June when the North Node moved
out of Capricorn into Sagittarius on June 10, 1899.

The passage of the North Node into Sagittarius took the nat-
ufal position of the Business Curve to nearly normal. The strong
secondary factors present pushed the Curve above normal during
the year.

When the North Node moved into Sagittarius, it was within

[ 32 ]

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

10 degrees of a conjunction aspect with the depressing planet
Saturn, This aspect usually depresses the Business Curve tem-
porarily, but Jupiter in a favorable 30 degree angle to both Saturn
and the Node at this time sent the Curve upward instead, through
January and February, 1900. This sharp upward trend in the
latter part of 1899 was the forerunner of the three year period of
above-normal prices known in history as the “Merger Prosperity
Period.”

THE MERGER PROSPERITY PERIOD

1900-1903

Business activity started strong at the beginning of 1900, but
soon slumped well below the normal line. This was due to the
fact that the North Node came into an unfavorable 180 degree
angle (opposition aspect) with the powerful planet Pluto. Uranus
and Jupiter in conjunction in Sagittarius were also forming a con-
junction aspect with the North Node. From March through
November Pluto was in opposition to the North Node, Uranus
and Jupiter. The Business Curve dropped from 11 points above
normal to 5 points below normal under this combination of un-
favorable secondary factors.

In December, 1900, two astronomical changes came about
which turned the Business Curve upward. The North Node
moved into Scorpic on December 31, 1900, and Saturn moved
into orb of a favorable 30 degree angle with Uranus.

When the North Node moved into Scorpio the curve of busi-
ness activity had reached the normal point, inasmuch as Scorpio
is the sign on the normal point of the Business Cycle Chart.
Without the presence of secondary factors to distort the Curve
up or down, business activity was now standing at normal. The
Curve rose to 5 points above normal by April, 1901, which was
due to the presence of the favorable semi-sextile aspect between
Saturn and Uranus. This aspect lasted all year. Commodity
prices rose as well as Rail stocks during the year.

During January and February of 1902, the Business Curve
dropped to 2 points above normal as Jupiter formed an unfavor-

{ 53]

 

--- Page 37 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE OF BUSINESS VOLUME
és 1 ‘ REA + +

TUM
La tee Le

   
   
 

Of +

5 o
BHT TET
BEET,

HTT ETT ETT

LTTE TT

THEE ETT “

EU ETL l
CTT TT
PT aH ~
TTT MULTI eeertd Hh
TUT TT UP ts MHL ®
CEA LT ag TET aT

TE TTT a
HUSTLE USN
UATE TTR as

PU
PASTE TTT TATA ATTT
TTT eg

PRU
SMTETTTICTTIITU ne
| tA

PTT i¢
HT ATT

PSS tI
IMT Peni ©
TTT MRE

7 Thaw . ve

[ 34]

€061-0061 ‘GOlddd ALTMEdSOWd WON

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

able 90 degree angle (square aspect) with the North Node. fn
April, the effect of this aspect passed away and the Business
Curve moved up three points. The Business Curve stayed between
4 and 5 points above normal during all of 1902. Saturn was in
a favorable 30 degree angle to both Uranus and Jupiter and the
latter was in a favorable 60 degree angle to Uranus.

On July 19, 1902, the North Node moved into Libra which
indicated that the natural position of the Business Curve, without
the presence of favorable or unfavorable secondary factors was
now slightly above normal.

In the fall of 1902, Saturn was in an unfavorable 90 degree
angle to the North Node. This secondary factor would have
caused a drop in the Business Curve if Saturn had not been in a
favorable 30 degree angle to Uranus. Uranus was also in a favor-
able 60 degree angle to the North Node at the same time. These
factors kept the Business Curve up through the spring of 1903.

THE RICH MAN’S PANIC—1903-1904

On January 20, 1903, Saturn moved out of Capricorn and into
the sign of Aquarius. This transit took Saturn out of orb of the
favorable 30 degree angle with Uranus and brought it into an
unfavorable 45 degree angle with Uranus the &tst of May. The
Business Curve dropped six points by September at which time
Neptune formed an unfavorable 90 degree angle with the North
Node. This unfavorable secondary factor caused the Business
Curve to drop 11 points below normal through January, 1904.
This combination of unfavorable secondary factors brought a 17
point total drop in the Business Curve causing what is known as
the “Rich Man's Panic.” Stocks had a correspondingly sharp
drop also with Rails suffering more severely than Industrials.
According to the Dow-Jones averages, Rails dropped 18 points
from 110 to 92, and Industrials dropped 17 points from 64 to 47.

On February 7, 1904, the North Node moved into Virgo in-
dicating that the Normal position of the Business Curve was al-
most to the high point on the Business Cycle Chart. The Curve
rose six points during February under this influence, but dropped

{ 55}

 

--- Page 38 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SC4hsf afr BUSINESS VOLOME
i ' - + +
A oO 5 6 O &
HEUTE ETT
HUTT RATT TTT
CCAP TICE Tt
LOTT eT TTT TTT O
TOT Pes le TET
UT a TUT
ITT Tt

   
   
   

‘
©

FAMUUEIEA LEER: ee

UU ee RTT TTT
Tr AUT

HUET
OUT rae
OT ar
TOUT at
UT
iL
AE
it
HE
HI
| AT

rd :
im
vr’

L

ai . a wi Pail

[ 56]

i
-_

PO6T-€06T ‘DINVd S.NVAW HOM

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

4 points in May as Saturn formed an unfavorable 150 degree
angle with the North Node. This influence was also felt in
August, 1904, when the Business Curve stood at 5 points below
normal.

In September, 1904, the Business Curve took a sharp upturn
due to the fact that the North Node moved out of orb of aspects
with Saturn and Uranus. Jupiter was in a favorable 120 degree
angle with Uranus; and Saturn was within orb to form a favot-
able 60 degree angle with both planets. These angles were ta
force during the fall and by the end of December, 1904, the Busi-
ness Curve had risen 9 points. This recovery from the “Rich
Man’s Panic” marked the beginning of a three year period with
above-normal business volume and rising stock market prices
which has come to be known in history as the “Corporate Pros-
perity Period.”

THE CORPORATE PROSPERITY PERIOD
1905-1907

The Business Curve was three points above normal by January
of 1905 and rose six more points through June of the same year.
This was due to the favorable sextile (60 degree) angle between
Saturn and Uranus. Uranus and Saturn were also in favorable
aspect to the North Node at the same time. Uranus was forming
a trine (120 degree) angle to the North Node and Saturn was
forming a sextile (60 degree) angle to the North Node. Three
planets in favorable aspect to each other or two planets and the
North Node in mutual favorable aspect to each other are always
accompanied by increased business volume and rising stock market
prices. This is especially true if the planets involved are Satur,
Uranus, and Jupiter. Of course, unfavorable secondary factors
present can modify these indications, but generally the upward
trend prevails.

Saturn, Uranus and the “North Node were in mutual favorable
relationship to each other through June, 1905, and the Business
Curve rose to 9 points above normal.

[37]

 

--- Page 39 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE OF BUSINESS VOLUME On July 21, 1905, Jupiter moved into Gemini, the sign which
, See + + + is co-ruler of the United States. This was a favorable secondary
5 0 o D 3 factor for bullish business and Stock Market activity, but it hap- !
el HHL pened that at the same time that Jupiter moved into Gemini, it |
EY] | : formed an unfavorable square (90 degree) angle with Saturn |
| and the North Node. This caused the Business Curve to drop |
one point; however, this was soon recovered as the North Node {|
moved into Leo, August 25, 1905. |
Leo is the sign on the highest point of the Business Cycle Chart |
and the passage of the North Node into the sign of Leo indit-
cated that business volume for a year and one-half in advance |
would be at its Zenith with the norma! position of the Business iF
Curve sharply above normal. The Business Curve rose from 9 :
points above normal to £3 points above normal through Januaty,
1906. Besides the elevated Node position, two favorable sec- !
ondaty factors were present. Jupiter was in Gemini and Seturm |!
was in favorable relationship to Uranus, forming a sextile or 60 :
degree angle.
Saturn was forming a 90 degree angle (square aspect) to
Jupiter during the spring and summer of 1906. This caused a :
gradual decline of four points in the Business Curve; however, Ji
in the fall, the Business Curve recovered three points as Jupiter
moved into Cancer, one of the signs which has strong afhnity for
the United States. During this time Saturn was in a 60 degree !
angle to Uranus and 120 degree angle to Jupiter both of which I
were favorable aspects. In January, 1907, the Business Curve
Lt receded to nine points above normal as Jupiter moved out of orb
TH Are TT TTS of aspect with Saturn and Uranus. These three points were re-
TO covered in March when the North Node moved into Cancer on
ATT TE | March 16, 1907. This high was maintained until June, 1907,
OUTST | when the Business Curve showed signs of weakness. “This was
DEBUSUUOOEAMERNOUTROVNUONNANTINTE a ore fo the fact that Saturn had moved to 24 acerecs Pisces i
| y and was forming a very unfavorable angle (90 degrees)
with the powerful planet Pluto which was in Gemini, one of the
signs so strongly influencing the United States. Saturn, in 24
degrees Pisces, had reached the sensitive degree area (24 degrees

 

LN

&/
L061-S06T “GOMAd ALMAdSOUd TLVUOdUOD

a
| el
Pe
P|
Pg
el
rst lGG CC
_
,
EE =
ee _.
, i
, ie ca | hl
eed or al |
eee ee |
ee Nereeel r
a
Ee
_
| meal
1
,
|
_—
7

Ht
ATT
PUREE TUTTE
: E

| ;
ji ~ rs AwhwuUe '. ia a |

[58] ; [59]

 

--- Page 40 ---
McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

—28 degrees Pisces) on the mid-heaven of the Chart of the New
York Stock Exchange and clearly sounded a warning signal that
the Corporate Prosperity Period was at an end and a drop in the
Business Curve was imminent.

THE PANIC OF 1907

According to this theory of forecasting business conditions to-

gether with the rise and fall of Stock Market prices, all slumps,
depressions, crashes and recessions are pointed out months in ad-
vance. The warning signals are given plainly enough and the
Panic of 1907 was no exception to this rule. Anyone familiar
with this theory knows that the position of Saturn on the mid-
heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart is a danger sig-
nal and market traders should sell and sefl quick before the crash
comes. Saturn was in the sensitive degree (24 degrees to 28 de-
grees Pisces) from May to October of 1907.
The lunation of October 7, 1907, occurred in 13 degrees Libra
in square aspect (aufavorable 90 degrees angle) to Neptune, (one
of the rulers of the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Ex-
change), in square aspect to Uranus and in square aspect to the
North Node.

Neptune at the same time was in the sensitive degree area
(14 degrees—17 degrees Cancer) of the Ascendant of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart. This was a double indication of
trouble for business and the Stock Market. The Business Curve
dropped from 8 points above normal to 18 points below normal.
This was a sharp drop of 26 points in all for the Business
Curve. Stocks, bonds, industrial activity and business, in general,
slumped. Saturn during this petiod was also in unfavorable
Square aspect to Pluto which was in the sign of Gemini.

The Business Curve remained at 18 points below. normal
through May, 1908. From June through December, 1908, the
Business Curve rose slowly 10 points due to the fact that Jupiter
was trine Saturn and this tended to lessen the influence of the
bad square aspect (90 degrees) between Saturn and Uranus,

The Business Curve continued to rise in 1909 as the North

{ 60 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting
SCMLS OF BUSINESS VOLUME

    
 
  
 

 
   
  
 

   
   
   
   

 
   

 
 
     
 
 

  
  
  

   
  
  

  
   
  
       
       
      
    
     
  
     
    
        

 
   
    
   

  
      
  
   
   
 
  

    
         

     

   
    
     

     
 

   
    
      
 

   

 

  
  
  
   
  
 
   

   
  

   
  
  

 

[ + + +
ld Oo 5 ° 6
ETT TUT
EB TTT TTT LT
OTT TTT
HAA Aa HHH
THOTT TTT
HE RETA PEEP TUAE ETUC
HEA TTT TTA TETHER TTC TEHT HET HEETTit
TTT ETT TTR HU
CE 5
TTT TTT TTT PRS LETT Hie
INET IMESRUTTTTITL
UU UMM
i HHI UL .
AMIRI 6
TOT TETTT ET 5
CCT TTT
UTE = LM

  
 

PAPEETE

TINS mI

     
  

   

    

   

     

        
    
 

      
   
 
   
 
   
  
 

   

   

TT TBI tc
HHT VU Maga OEE 5

rUtHtnTH tt Ht BUTT %

HUTT es as Sy

EATTTONUIT ECCI a HUT
ATT TTT

OTT To TT
| UT Tite UT
PUTEETETTCTT TTT TTT MPT APRICOT
CAAT TTT
Pal | TI eer

i AWwHuo i .

     
 

 

f

o
0

 
  

 

   

    

[ 61 }

L061 JO DINVd

 

--- Page 41 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Node had moved on October 1, 1908, into Gemini, the sign so
strongly influencing the United States. In this position the Node
came into conjunction with the powerful planet Pluto during the
first half of the year. In the summer of 1909, Jupiter formed a
favorable 120 degree angle with Uranus and at the same time
Saturn formed a favorable 60 degree angle with Pluto. The com-
bined influence of these two favorable secondary factors took the
Business Curve upward 13 points. By December, 1909, the Busi-
ness Curve was 9 points above normal. The Business Curve did
not hold to this level long, however, for in January, 1910, Saturn,
Jupiter and Uranus were all in unfavorable aspect to each other.
Saturn and Jupiter were square Uranus while Saturn and Jupiter
were in unfavorable opposition aspect (180 degrees). The Busi-
ness Cutve began to drop during the remainder of 1910 and
reached its low of 8 points below normal in July, 1911. This
by the Sherman Anti-Trust Act which broke up latge trusts all
was the depression period of 1910-1911, caused to a great extent
overt the country.

On April 19, 1910, the North Node entered the sign of
Taurus. This indicated that Business activity had reached a trans-
ition period which would last approximately two years, or the
time it would take for the North Node to pass through the signs
of Taurus and Aries. it further indicated that the trend of the
Business Curve would be downward for at least five years to come,
unless the presence of favorable secondary factors reversed the
trend temporarily during this period. (See Business Cycle Chart.)
This was a warning signal given in April, 1910, of a change in
the long-term or primary trend of business activity in general,
and market traders should have taken their profits and gotten out
of the market at once. The same law of action and reaction which
had brought the tide in was now taking the tide out. In other
words, the same law of force which took the Business Cycle up-
ward was now taking the Cycle downward—action and reaction
being equal. The technical position of the Business Curve was
around normal while the North Node transited Taurus and
slightly below normal as the North Node passed through the
position of Aries.

[ 62 ]

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

During the fall of 1910, Jupiter was forming a 90 degree
angle or square aspect with both Uranus and Neptune. This un-
favorable secondary factor depressed the Business Curve six points
by the end of the year. .

During the first six months of 1911 the Business Curve
dropped 2 mote points as Saturn and Uranus were in orb of a
square aspect again and Jupiter was in opposition aspect (180
degrees) to Saturn. .

In July, 1911, Satum came within orb of a trine aspect (120
degrees) with Uranus. This very favorable secondary factor lifted
the Business Curve three points through December, 1911, even
though the North Node passed into Aries November 10, 1911,
indicating that the “normal” or technical position of the Business
Curve was below normal now.

The first six months of 1912, Jupiter was in Sagittarius and in
favorable aspect to the North Node aod Uranus. This lifted the
Business Curve five points above normal. In July, 1912, Saturn
moved into Gemini and formed a favorable trine (120 degree)
aspect with Uranus. This lifted the Business Curve three more
points above normal. The high was reached ta January and Feb-
tuary, 1913, when the Business Curve stood at 9 points above
normal, After this time the Business Curve went down through
the remainder of 1913 bringing about what is known in history
as the “War Depression” period.

THE WAR DEPRESSION 1913-1914

Jupiter moved into Capricorn in January, 1913, and at the same
time formed an unfavorable squate aspect (90 degrees} with the
North Node. Since the technically correct position of the Bust-
ness Curve was below the normal line the Business Curve began
to recede during the remainder of 1913.

The North Node moved into Pisces May 28, 1923. This in-
dicated a technically lower position for the Business Curve.

In September, 1913, Saturn formed a slightly unfavorable as-
pect with Uranus (sesqui-quadraie of 135 degrees) which lasted
through May, 1915. This was further accentuated by the fact that

{ 63 }

 

--- Page 42 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

VOLUME
+

pa
O

 

SCAll OF BUSINESS
| NORMA

   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  

   

   

i 7
tat we

  

 
  
  

  

  

|
EEE
PTT
eS
ERTL 6

HTN,
LIGy

   

    
  
   
    
  
 

  
   

HI
PUTT TT
MET TETT
HOUT TE TTT
AT UUALUOTALAN Ay
HUTT A a HUET
PTT MST
TTT TT Pe TT
TTT oO PPR 6
TAM
CTT TTS cde TET
TTT TT TTT
TUT ee | TUTTE TTT
PET bot Ta AT
UBL
HLT
TTT
ROT
HUET PEE

   

  
   
    
 
   
 
    

     
  
  
 

   
   

  

 
  
  

      
  

   

    
     
       
 
     
   
 
 
  
  

  

 
  

 
  

   
 
  
  

    
   
  

   
 

4
. 4
i ay

lvTHYoe o

  

[ 64]

I
LT

PIGI-CIOEL ‘NOISSHUddd UVAA

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Saturn was in Gemini, the sign which has a strong influence over
the United States. Up until 1913 this secondary factor was neu-
tralized by the fact that Saturn was in favorable aspect to Uranus.
When this aspect passed, the influence of Saturn in Gemini was
felt.

The year 1914 saw the New York Stock Exchange closed from
July to December due to the outbreak of the World War. Busi-
ness was poor and commodity prices were extremely low. Liquida-
tion of stocks held by European buyers was mainly responsible for
the closing of the Exchange. At the end of 1914 the Business
Curve stood at 14 points below the normal line.

On December 19, 1914, the North Node moved out of Pisces
into the sign of Aquarius. This sign is on the low point of the
Business Cycle Chart in this theory, and the passage of the North
Node into Aquarius indicated that the Business Curve technically
had reached its lowest point. It also indicated that business ac-
tivity would not be this low again for many years to come. In
actuality, the Business Curve did not go below this point until
seven years later in 1921.

Although the Business Curve remained below the normal line
for the first six months of 1915, it was steadily climbing, during
this period, toward the normal line which it reached in July.
This rise began as Jupiter was in conjunction with the North
Node intrine (120 degrees) aspect with Saturn. Saturn also came
within orb of a trine aspect with Uranus during the spring. These
secondary factors lifted the Curve sharply.

In July, 1915, Jupiter reached 28 degrees Pisces, the sign on
the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart. This
transit pointed to rising Stock Market prices and increased busi-
ness volume which marked the latter part of 1915, all of 1916
and 1917, and part of 1918. This was the beginning of the
period known in economic history as the “War Prosperity”
period.

WAR PROSPERITY—1915-1918
From July through December, 1915, the Business Curve rose

{ 65 ]

 

--- Page 43 ---
 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE OF BUSINESS VOLUME
\ Pan

 
   
 
 
  
   

+ + +
0 5 ro) O 6
PULTE TEE

TM
Te PUR UCT =
TECTIA ras bea UU TTEEE TT O
TTT
ase TUTTI
TTC

TTT THUS Pal

LT RED! PLT ES |

POU

f 66}

SI6I-SI61 ‘GOMdd ALIHdSOUd WA

 

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

13 points above the normal line. This was a rise of 27 points
in all for the Business Curve or business volume for the year.
During the last six months of 1915, Uranus was in conjunction
with the North Node, and Jupiter was in a favorable semi-sextile
aspect to both Uranus and the North Node.

During all of 1916, the Business Curve remained between 13
and 16 points above normal. On July 4, 1916, the North Node

into Capricorn which lifted the technical position of the
Business Curve slightly, although its “Normal” position was still
under the normal line. Favorable secondary factors, however,
lifted the Business Curve to its above normal position during this
period. Jupiter was in Aries during most of this year and there-
fore was passing over the mid-heaven of the New York Stock
Exchange Chart. This was an indication of booming industrial
activity. Jupiter's transit over this point every 12 years has usually
marked a prosperity period in business.activity or the beginning
of such a petiod in financial and economic history.

The first half of 1917 was marked by a continuation of the
high business volume of 1916 and the Business Curve remained
around 14 points above normal. On June 30, 1917, Jupiter
moved into Gemini, the sign which is co-tuler of the United
States. In December, 1917, Saturn came within ob of an un-
favorable opposition aspect (180 degrees) with Uranus. This
brought about a 5 point drop in the Business Curve which was
followed by a decrease of 2 more points in January and February,
1918. These two planets moved out of orb until August, 1918.
The presence of this unfavorable secondary factor the last half
of 1918 should have taken the Business Curve down sharply, if it
had not been, for the fact that the North Node was in Sagittarius
where it had been since January 22, 1918. In this position the
North Node was in favorable aspect to both Saturn and Uranus.
This mitigated the influence of the unfavorable Saturn and Uranus
aspect to a great extent.

The effect of the unfavorable Saturn-Uranus aspect was felt
duting the first six months of 1919 when the Business Curve
dropped to 8 points below normal. There was a temporary up-

{ 67 J

 

--- Page 44 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

turn during July and August, 1919, when Uranus formed a favor-
able trine aspect {120 degrees} with Pluto. This favorable sec-
ondary factor lifted the Curve to 7 points above normal.

The North Node passed out of Sagittarius into Scorpio August
10, 1919, lifting the technical position of the Business Curve to
the normal line. Scorpio is one of the transition points on the
Business Cycle Chart. As the North Node passes through Scorpio
and Libra it marks a two year transition period when the Curve
starts its five year trend from normal to high on the Business
Cycle Chart. Unfavorable secondary factors can lower the natural
position of the Curve from 1% to 20%. The Business Curve
dropped five points through the fall of 1919.

The Business Curve shot upward 11 points above normal dur-
ing January and February, 1920, under the inflationary influence
of Jupiter in conjunction with Neptune, semi-sextile Saturn and
semi-sextile Pluto. This upturn was short-lived, however, for in
March and April of 1920, the Business Curve dropped seven
points due to the fact that Saturn had come within orb of the
unfavorable 180 degree angle (opposition aspect) with Uranus.
The Business Curve remained from four to five points above
notmal through August, 1920, when the Curve turned sharply
downward. This down turn of the Business Curve, which re-
mained below the normal line for the next twenty months, was
the beginning of the “Primary Post-War Depression.”

THE PRIMARY POST-WAR DEPRESSION—
1920-1922

Saturn was in opposition to the mid-heaven of the New York
Stock Exchange during the first three months of 1921 and Jupiter
was in orb of a conjunction aspect with Saturn. Mars passing
over the mid-heaven of the same Chart was in unfavorable aspect
to Saturn and Jupiter. This indicated falling stock prices, falling
bond prices and high interest rates. The Business Curve dropped
to 26 points below the normal line. During most of the year of
1921 Saturn was in conjunction with Jupiter and both planets

{ 68 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALL all BUSINESS VOLUME

|
A et il. NETL TLUEEALTL Ps
Sa ATT Hy

IHS a
TICUTUTIPRPAL LIT Lae ee
TTC gam
Tua NTE

" HLT

 

|

ee]

KN ir CULUELLAE
AUT E SHMUEL
TOUTES TTT TTA TTC
TT

FE:

o IwHBOM *

{ 69 ]

CZ6L-0261 ‘NOISSHUdHG UVA-LSOd AUVWTd

 

--- Page 45 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

were in opposition aspect to Uranus. This double influence
pointed to the depression experienced during 1921.

The Moon’s No:th Node moved into Libra, February 28, 1921,
and the technically correct position for the Business Curve was
slightly above normal where it would have been, if it had not
been for the presence of the unfavorable secondary factors men-
tioned above.

In October, 1921, both Saturn and Jupiter moved into Libra
and the Business Curve rose five points through December.

During 1922, a rapid recovery set in from the depression of
the previous years and the Business Curve rose 22 points by
September. During the first part of the year Saturn, Jupiter and
the North Node were in conjunction in Libra. During the last
three months of 1922, Jupiter was in a favorable 120 degree angle
with Uranus (trine aspect).

On September 16, 1922, the North Node moved into Virgo.
This lifted the natural position of the Curve to a position slightly
under the high point (Leo) on the Business Cycle Chart.

The combined influence of the North Node’s passage into
Virgo and the favorable Jupiter-Uranus aspect lifted the Business
Curve 9 points above the normal line by the end of December,
1922.

During the first four months of 1923, the Business Curve rose
from 9 points above normal to 15 points above the normal line.
This cise of 6 points was due to Jupiter being trine Uranus and
semi-sextile Saturn.

From May through December, 1923, the Business Curve
dropped steadily, losing 11 points. This was due to the presence
of the secondary factor, Uranus in opposition to the North Node.
This unfavorable aspect lasted practically during the entire year.

In December, 1923, Saturn formed an unfavorable sesqui-
quadrate aspect (135 degrees) with Uranus which was in force
through the fall of 1924.

Except for a three point rise in the Business Curve during Jan-
uary and February, 1924, when Jupiter was in favorable aspect
(semi-sextile—30 degrees) to Saturn, the Business Curve dropped

[ 70 J

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

sharply below normal through November, 1924. Uranus was in
sesqui-quadrate aspect to Saturn and in square aspect to Jupiter.
The Curve reached its low of 13 points below normal in June.

The North Node moved into Leo, the sign on the “high”
point of the Business Cycle Chart, April 4, 1924. This transit
into Leo indicated that the technically correct position of the
Business Curve had reached its high point and that business
activity should be booming at this time if there were no unfavor-
able secondary factors present to keep the Business Curve down,
Since there were present unfavorable secondary factors during
1924, as soon as they passed, the Business Curve was bound to
fise and adjust itself to its technically correct position above the
normal line. The Business Curve rose 13 points through the sum-
mer and fall and crossed the normal line in December. It had a
further rise of 4 points by the end of the month, which marked
the beginning of the ‘three-year period of above normal prices
known in history as the “Coolidge Prosperity Period.”

COOLIDGE PROSPERITY PERIOD 1925-1927

At the beginning of 1925, the Business Curve was standing at
almost 9 points above normal. From January to October, 1925,
the Business Curve receded 5 points. Two secondary factors came
into play during this period which must be noticed. (1) Satura
and Uranus formed a favorable trine aspect (120 degrees) during
the spring and fall. (2) Uranus moved to the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart.

The favorable aspect between Saturn and Uranus mitigated the
influence of the elevated position of Uranus on the tenth house
or angle of the New York Stock Exchange Chart which was
Ofiginated by the writer and which gives an excellent key to the
future trend of the Stock Market. Uranus stands for the unex-
pected, the unprecedented and the unusual. The fact that it was
favorably aspected by Saturn pointed to the prosperity period at
hand as weli as the rise in the Stock Market, This period marked
the beginning of the greatest Bull Market for stock prices in
financial history.

{71}

 

--- Page 46 ---
 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE OF BUSINESS VOLUME
+

A oO Oo
PUTT MT
PUTT IT
UT T IU
AUT TT POL
RSET TT
TPE TUT
BST
aa) beret ETL
Rey RPT

rf TTT

  
  
 

TTT (Te HN
Neral ae TTT
TMM CSTE
TNS OLED TETTCCEAT ECCT

Ttridt iC

had os

[ 72 }

 

eg =

L761-S261 ‘QOMad ALIMAdSOWd AOATTOOD

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

As it has been stated before in these pages, no planct has ever

passed over the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange

Chart which has not pointed out very definite changes in the
trend of security prices, bonds, and general business activity. The

ge of Uranus over this point was no exception to this rule,
In fact, the wildest speculative wave in history took place during
this transit. Uranus truly brought about the “unheard-of” and
most ptecedent-breaking Bull Market in financial history.

The Business Curve rose 6 points during the fall of 1925 reach-
ing 9 points above normal by January, 1926. During 1926 the
Curve fluctuated most of the year between 6 and 9 points above
normal. The fatter part of October, 1926, the Business Curve
dropped from 9 points above normal to 4 points above normal,
due to the fact that Saturn moved out of orb of the favorable
120 degree angle with Uranus.

On October 25, 1925, the North Node had moved out of Leo
into Cancer and this slightly lowering of the technical position
of the Business Curve (see Business Cycle Chart) was felt dur-
ing 1926.

The Business Curve rose to 8 points above normal through
June, 1927, and then dropped sharply through the remainder of
the year reaching 5 points below normal in November. This drop
was due to the conjunction aspect of Uranus and Jupiter in un-
favorable square aspect (90 degrees) to the North Node. This
combination of secondary factors was especially strong since
Uranus and Jupiter were both on the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange Chat.

On May 13, 1927, the North Node moved into Gemini, the
sign which strongly influences the United States. This transit
indicated that the technical position of the Business Curve was
now slightly above normal. The planet Jupiter in Gemini, how-
ever, together with the North Node, has an expansive influence
on business in this country every 12 years when it goes through
Gemini. (The transit of Jupiter through the ruling sign of any
country brings a period of prosperity and expansion, if there is
no decidedly opposing testimony.) The passage of the North

[73 }

--- Page 47 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALES OF BUSINESS VOLOME
‘ + +
Bs 5 OBO
HE TC TT TTT SUT
ETT re
THT eA UT

TT TE TT

AT wea |i

     

    

}
bg
o

    

ML
Pera
ET

os

WHY GR " *

ig Phd

{ 74]

 

6261-8261 .. WOOd LAISUVW TINE..

_ oo i

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Node into Gemini in 1927 and the transit of Jupiter into Gemini
in 1929 marked out the “Bull Market Boom” period ih financial
history, which will be long remembered in this country as one of
the greatest prosperity periods of all times.

THE “BULL MARKET BOOM,” 1928-1929

During the first six months of 1928, the Business Curve stood
between 2 and 3 points above normal due to the fact that Saturn
was in unfavorable opposition aspect (180 degrees) to the North
Node. ‘The Business Curve rose 6 points in August as Jupiter,
Uranus and the North Node were in favorable aspect. This com-
bination of favorable secondary factors was also in force through
the fall of 1928, along with a favorable 120 degree aspect (#rine)
between Saturn and Uranus. The Business Curve rose from 9
points above normal to 15 points above normal during the first
six months of 1929. This was the high point reached by the
Business Curve in the “Bull Market Boom.” The high point for
stock prices was reached on September 3, 1929. The average for
Rails was 189 and the average for Industrials was 381.

On December 1, 1928, the North Node moved into Taurus.
This was a warning signal six months in advance that the “Bull
Market Boom’ would soon be over. Taurus is the sign on the
Business Cycle Chart which marks the transition point in the
Business Cycle as the Business Curve goes from normal to low for
a four-year petiod. The Business Curve, 2s well as the Stock
Market, had to go lower in a short time, and traders could have
been saved the terrific losses they suffered if this theory of fore-
casting the Market had been known.

THE WALL STREET PANIC OF 1929
This never-to-be-forgotten panic occurred October 24, 1929,
culminating in the close of the New York Stock Exchange, for
adjustments, on October 26, 1929.
The panic was clearly pointed out by the previous lunation,
(as all stock Market crashes have been pointed out in the past).

[75]

--- Page 48 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

The lunation, or New Moon, occurred October 2, 1929 in 8 de-
grees Libra, in exact opposition aspect (180 degrees) to the
chaotic and epoch-making planet Uranus which was posited on
the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart. Uranus
was the “key” planet to this crash since it had been occupying
an elevated position for some time on this important angle of
the New York Stock Exchange Chart. Uranus has the most un-
usual, revolutionary, unexpected and epoch-making effects upon
conditions, and surely this financial crash, for which Uranus was
responsible, was epoch-making. It caught most traders unaware
of danger, and then wiped them out. This panic which saw
Industrial Averages plummet from a high of 381 to a low of 198
by the middle of November, and Rail averages drop from a high
of 189 to a low of 128 in the same length of time, marked the
beginning of the severe “Secondary Post-War Depression” period,
the effects of which have dominated the 1930's.

THE SECONDARY POST-WAR DEPRESSION

From October, through December, 1929, the Business Curve
dropped 16 points. Saturn moved into Capricorn November 30,
and came within orb of an unfavorable square aspect (90 degrees)
with Uranus. At the same time the North Node was in a favor-
able aspect with Uranus and this temporary favorable secondaty
factor lifted the Business Curve 2 points in January and Feb-
ruary, 1930. In March, however, the Business Curve turned
downward under the influence of the unfavorable Saturn-Uranus
Square aspect and by the end of the year 1930 the Business Curve
was 27 points below the normal line.

On June 19, 1930, the North Node moved into Aries, in-
dicating that the technical position of the Business Curve, without
the presence of either favorable or unfavorable secondary factors,
was now below normal and would be going still lower until the
North Node moved into Aquarius, which is the low point on the
Business Cycle Chart, July 28, 1933.

The powerful planet Pluto was going over the ascendent of

{76}

|
i

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SCALE OF BUSINESS VOLUME

i i 1 +

ie ie Oo 0 5 E
In
I
TH
af
TUUTTUTUTRIEC ARETE TATTLE (Dp
HTT COLT UL eed UT se TTA
TUNIC CeR CUT TET Be
TUTTE TTT Ta Hes sh
Ue
TTT ee
TTT a
TUT TL ie
TUTTE
PTT
TST Ta

        
        
   
     

 
       

  
  
 

     

     
   
   
 
 

  

dey ae | | | I
TTT SL TTT S
TBI ie THT TRIN

 
    
    

He
TUNA TCU

Gt
UN

F
[|

  

HUTT
WU

  

[

a

wie

{77}

P661-6761 ‘NOISSHUdHA UVA-LSOd ALVANOOS

 

--- Page 49 ---
"

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

the New York Stock Exchange Chart during 1930 in unfavorable.

square aspect to Uranus on the mid-heaven of this same chart.
Jupiter was also in square aspect to Satuen, Uranus, Pluto and
the North Node.

Duting 1931, the Business Curve dropped 11 ‘points lower
than the preceding year and by the end of December was stand-
ing at 38 points below normal. Saturn was in unfavorable oppo-
sition (180 degrees) aspect to Pluto and Jupiter and in unfavor-
able square aspect to Uranus. Usanus was also in unfavorable
square aspect to Pluto and Jupiter besides being in conjunction
with the North Node. Such an array of powerful unfavorable
secondary factors sent the Business Curve sharply downward dur-
ing the year. |

The election year, 1932, saw no let up from the depression—
unemployment, strikes, bank failures, poor business and hard
times, were felt over the entire country. The Democratic Party,
which had been out of power since the Wilson Administration
(a period of 12 years), was swept into power by an overwhelming
and unprecedented victory. The Republican Party was in dis-
grace. Franklin Delano Roosevelt was the man of the hour. It
is significant to mention here that Mr. Roosevelt is an Aquarian
and when he took office the North Node had moved into Aqua-
rius, the sign on the low point of the Business Cycle Chart, show-
ing that business was at a low ebb and that Mr. Roosevelt was
a man fitted by birth to handle the situation at that time. Even
more significant is the fact that Mr. Hoover is a Leo type, the
sign diametrically opposed to Aquarius, since it is its polar op-

ite. Leo is on the high point of the Business Cycle Chart,
which indicates that Mr. Hoover was not fitted by birth to handle
the depression as Mr. Roosevelt was. Mr. Hoover, as it would be
expected, favored the Capitalists and moneyed interests. Mr.
Roosevelt, on the other hand has championed the cause of the
little man. The two men stand for totally different things and
it is doubtful if either one can ever see the other's governmental
viewpoint.

In fairness to both great men it is not amiss to digress long

f 78 J

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

enough here to state that Mr. Hoover was not responsible for the
depression and Mr. Roosevelt was not responsible for the recov-
ery. Both processes came about as a natural order of things—the
ebb and flow of cyclic change in finance. Mr. Hoover's views
were not fitted, however, to work in harmony with the process of
recovery and Mr. Roosevelt's views were. That made all the dif-
ference.

The Business Curve dropped from 38 points below normal
to 51 points below normal by the end of 1932. The entire coun-
try was in the midst of the worst depression ever experienced and
business of all forms was at a standstill.

The North Node had moved into Pisces January 7, 1932, low-
ering the Business Curve's technica! position further below the
normal line. The secondary factor, however, which caused such
a severe drop in the Business Curve and Stock Market averages,
was the unfavorable square aspect (90 degrees) between Uranus
on the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart and
Pluto on the ascendant of this same Chart. Due to the slow move-
ment of these planets, this aspect was in force during all of 1931,
1932, and 1933.

On July 28, 1933, the North Node moved into Aquarius, the
sign on the low point of the Business Cycle Chart. This transit
indicated according to this theory, that (1) the Business Curve
would go no lower and that (2) with the passage of the North
Node out of Aquatius, the trend of the Business Curve would
slowly swing upward for four years. During 1933, the Business
Curve rose 10 points, but it was still 40% below normal at the
end of the year. During the first part of 1934, Saturn came into
conjunction with the North Node and this unfavorable secondary
factor depressed the Business Curve about five points. Business
did not show much progress during 1934.

The real recovery, according to this theory of forecasting eco-
nomic cycles, began when the North Node passed out of the sign
Aquarius and into the sign of Capricorn February 13, 1935.
Business was still far below normal, but it moved sharply upward
toward the normal line during 1935. During the last week of

[79 ]

 

--- Page 50 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

March, 1935, a very favorable secondary factor came into force
and this aspect sent the Business Curve upward much faster than
it ordinarily would have gone. This secondary factor, which acted
as an accelerator on the Business Curve, was the sextile (60
degree} aspect between Saturn in Pisces and Uranus in Taurus.

This was the beginning of an upswing in the Stock Market,
which lasted for approximately thirteen months and which was
accompanied by marked trade improvement. The year 1935 was
hailed in Wali Street as the most encouraging period since 1929.
The Associated Press average of 60 stocks stood at 55 at the end
of the year after rising from the year's low of 34.8 on March 18,
1935. Recurring political and financial crises during the year did
not deter the upturn of the Stock Market. Sixteen public utility
companies advanced around 140% from their lows to the end
of the year. The reason Utilities were so prominent in their tise,
especially during the latter half of June, July, the latter part of
October and the first half of November, 1935, was due to the
fact that most of them are incorporated under the Earth (Taurus,
Virgo, Capricorn) and Water signs (Pisces, Cancer, and Scorpio).
Steels likewise come under the rulership of the Earth and Water
signs and they too had a strong rise during this year.

The presence of Saturn in Pisces (Water sign) in favorable
aspect to Uranus in Taurus (Earth sign) and in favorable aspect
to Jupiter in Scorpio (Water sign) brought about the upturn in
share values of these two prominent Groups during 1935.

The year 1936 opened bullish for the Stock Market and busi-
hess continued to improve. The rise in the Stock Market during
1936 was one of the best in history. Except fora break in April,
1936, and minor recessions during August and November, 1936,
the Bull Market in Stocks which began in March, 1935, continued
steadily upward in 1936. This was a new all-time record for
longevity. The average rise in stock market vaiues was 25% in
1936.

The break in stock market prices, which came in April, 1936,
was Clearly indicated by this theory. The tise in share values cul-
minated April 6, 1936, as Venus passed over the mid-heaven of

[80 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

the New York Stock Exchange and no favorable planets followed
this transit over this important point. Furthermore, the favorable
aspect between Saturn and Uranus was no longer in force and
these two planets were forming an unfavorable semi-square aspect
(45 degrees) with each other. Without the presence of the favor-
able secondary factor, share values as well as the Business Curve
were Bound to have a technical reaction to adjust themselves to
their rightful position, since the favorable aspect between Saturn
and Uranus had sent the Business Curve upward much higher
than it ordinarily would have been.

The slump in stock market prices, which occurred April 27,
1936, was pointed out at the lunation of April 21, 1936. At that
time the New Moon was sesqui-quadrate Neptune, conjunction
Uranus, semi-square Saturn, and trine Jupiter. The aspect which
pointed to the drop in stocks was the unfavorable aspect (135
degrees) with Neptune. Every break in the Stock Market, when
there have been no planets transitting the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart, has been pointed out at the preceding
lunation by a conjunction or an unfavorable aspect to Neptune or
Mars, the two planetary rulers of the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart. Pisces and Aries, the two signs
which are placed on the tenth angle or mid-heaven of this Chart,
are ruled by Neptune and Mars respectively. If there is a planet
passing through or transiting over this angle of the Chart, it must
be considered along with Neptune and Mars, at any lunation,
when determining the future monthly trend for the stock market's
action.

When @ reaction in the stock market is indicated for any
month, it is always well to notice the days following the lunation
when the Moon passes through the signs which are placed on the
angles of the chart of the New York Stock Exchange. These
signs are Cancer, Libra, Capricorn and Aries. The signs Virgo
and Pisces are also co-rulers of the 4th and 10th angles and the
days when the Moon passes through these should also be watched.
It usually will be found that the break will occur on one of these
days. This is what happened in April, 1936. On April 27, 1936,

[81]

 

--- Page 51 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

when the break occurred, the Moon was in Cancer, the sign which
is the ascendant of the New York Stock Exchange Chart.

The slight recessions of August and November, 1936, were
partly seasonal dullness and occurred when the Sun was passing
through the mutable signs of Virgo and Sagittarius. These signs
being in square and opposition aspect to the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart often point out the months they
rule as dull months both for business and the stock market gen-
erally. (Gemini is the other mutable sign of the Mutable Square,
but it is the sign which strongly influences the United States;
therefore, the Sun's passage through this sign does not generally
bring a reaction or dull period in the stock market and business
each year.)

The year 1936 marks the fourth consecutive year that share
values had shown an uptrend in price. The Dow-Jones Industrial
Average at the end of 1933 stood at 99.90; at the end of 1934
at 104.04; at the end of 1935 at 144.13; and at the end of 1936
at 179.90.

The movement of the Groups during the year shows that
Industrials had the most consistent strength during 1936. Utilities
moved in a narrow price range the last half of the year. Rails
showed the widest gains and losses as a whole. Commodities ex-
perienced a Bull Market during 1936. The Bond Market also
turned sharply upward in price value, advancing 7%. Second
gtade Rail bonds had a spectacular rise of 239% in the Dow-
Jones Averages. Recovery from the depression of the early 1930's
was the feature financial and business fact of the formative year
of 1936.

1937, which was forecast ahead of time as another year of
gteater prosperity, turned out to be not so bullish after all. Fore-
casts for 1937 except the published ones by the writer based on
the theory in this book, all saw greater profits in the Stock Mat-
ket for the year ahead.

The published articles of the writer, while stating that the
Business Curve was upward during 1937, warned that Saturn

f 82 J

 

McWhirter Theory of Steck Market Forecasting

was approaching 24 degrees Pisces and that a recession in stock
and bond shares would be likely to occur. The mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart is governed by 24 to 28 degrees
Pisces and Saturn’s passage over this crucial point would certainly
leave its mark, inasmuch as no major planet has ever passed over
the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart without
indicating very definite changes in the stock market and subse-
quently business. .

The North Node had passed into Sagittarius September 1,
1936, and this transit placed the technical position of the Business
Curve slightly below normal. However, Saturn's movement to
this elevated position on the Exchange Chart, forecast the drop
in security prices for the year as well as the slump in bonds.

The lunation occurred March 12, 1937, in 21 degrees Pisces,
in conjunction with Saturn (which was in 24 degrees Pisces on
the exact angle of the mid-beaven of the New York Stock Ex-
change Chart), in opposition aspect to Neptune (one of the rulers
of the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart), in
semi-square aspect to Uranus, sextile aspect to Jupiter, and semi-
square aspect to Venus. On the same day that the lunation oc-
curred, Federal Bonds slumped after being easy all week. (Saturn
had been in 24 degrees Pisces since the sixth of March, 1937!).
When the lunation fell in conjunction with Satum, it set off the
Bond slump and gave a warning that a drop in stocks was bound
to follow soon, since Saturn’s elevated position on this Chart
affected stock prices also. It is interesting to note here that Gov-
ernment Bonds were at a high the last week in January, 1937,
when Venus was in 24 degrees Pisces, in exact conjunction with
the mid-heaven of this same Chart. This slump in bonds was
registered as the greatest turnover in Government Bonds since
December, 1920, and at that time Saturn was in 24 degrees
Virgo, in exact opposition to the mid-heaven of the New York
Stock Exchange Chart.

The first symptoms of the coming Stock Market decline oc-
curred on April 7, 1937. Leading issues were off 1 to 6 points
upon the rumor of a Gold price cut. Commodities cracked with

{83 ]

 

--- Page 52 ---
McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

weakness engulfing almost every commodity from metals to grains.
London and Amsterdam Markets were equally affected. The luna-
tion of March 12, 1937 had forecast this drop through the
Opposition aspect to Neptune at the lunation. On April 7th, the
Sun, Moon and Mercuty were in unfavorable aspect to Neptune.

On April 26, 1937, there was a slump on the London Exchange
which caused a drop in Wall Street. (England comes under the
rulership of the sign af Aries; therefore, Saturn's passage into
Aries marked out lower bond and stock market values for that
country.)

On April 28, 1937, stocks slumped again on the New York
Stock Exchange, reaching new 1937 lows and losing 25% of
their value acquired since March, 1935. This drop was pointed
out at the lunation of April 11, 1937. The New Moon at this
time was in unfavorable sesqui-quadrate aspect to Neptune, in
semi-sextile aspect to Saturn, in square aspect to Jupiter, and in
unfavorable sesqui-quadrate aspect to Mars, and in conjunction
aspect with Venus. The two unfavorable aspects to both rulers,
(Nepiune and Mars) of the mid-heaven of the Chart of the New
York Stock Exchange clearly indicated this drop. There was a
rally in stocks after this break which carried stocks to 190 in the
Dow-Jones Industrial Averages by the first part of August. This
rally brought stocks to within five points of the recovery high of
March, 1937. At the lunation of August 6, 1937, the New Moon
was fi semi-sextile aspect to Neptune, in unfavorable square
aspect to Uranus, and in unfavorable sesqui-quadrate aspect to
Saturn, which is now a “key” planet in analysing the trend of
stock market prices, due to its elevated position of the mid-heaven
of the Chart of the New York Stock Exchange. The Junation was
also in unfavorable semi-square aspect to Venus and in favorable
semi-sextile aspect to Mercury, both of which are minor aspects in
effect. The unfavorable aspect to Saturn at the lunation indicated
the downturn in stock prices. On the 14th of August, 1937, the
Sua formed an unfavorable 135 degree angle (sesqui-guadrate
aspect} with Saturn and the stock market averages turned down-
ward. Saturn is the planet representative of fear. Its elevated

[84 }

 

McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

position on the 10th angle {#id-beaven) of the New York Stack
Exchange Chart indicated that fear would be a dominant mental
factor influencing market trading. Furthermore, the tenth angle
of this same Chart represents the credit, reputation, and heads
of the New York Stock Exchange and Saturn’s position here rep-
resented trouble in this division of the New York Stock Exchange
Chatt. ‘This Chart which is the original work of the writer, has
clearly mirrored the 1937-38 history of the Stock Market.

The lunation of September 4, 1937, fell in conjunction with
Neptune and in unfavorable square aspect to Mars, the two
planetary rulers of the New York Stock Exchange Chart’s tenth
angle or mid-heaven. This configuration clearly pointed out a
drop in the Stock Market during September, 1937, On September
7, 1937, as the Moon (symbolic of the public mind) moved
through Libra in opposition aspect to Saturn (fear) a wave of
selling took place on the London Exchange with the selling of
“Americans” which had a drastic reaction on Wall Street causing
numerous issues to drop from 1 to 10 points in a very active
market. This was the worst drop since September 24, 1931. There
was a share turnover of 1,700,000 shares, As the Sun moved into
conjunction with Neptune and in unfavorable square aspect (90
degrees) with Mass, the two rulers of the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart, stocks dropped from $1.00 to
$6.00 a share after the break on Tuesday, September 7, 1937.
This was the greatest decline since October 17, 1930, Several
individual issues were down as much as 13 points. The Industrial
average was off 8.38 points.

On September 24, 1937, as the Sun moved in opposition to
Saturn, which is placed in a key position on the Exchange Chart’s
mid-heaven, heavy fear selling, both here and abroad, took place.
As many as 538 issues plummetted to new lows with stock prices
losing two billion in value.

The crashes in the Stock Market, which took place on October
18 and 19, 1937, were pointed out by the lunation or New
Moon of October 4, 1937. At this time the Moon was in opposi-
tion to Saturn and in square aspect to Mars. Mars and Satum

[ 85 ]

 

--- Page 53 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

were in unfavorable square aspect to each other. On the 18th of
October, the Moon was in conjunction with Saturn and in un-
favorable aspect

stocks since 1930. On the 19th of October, 1937, stocks slumped
again with the heaviest selling in four years. There were 932
lows with 7,287,990 shares traded. This was the greatest volume
since July 21, 1933. Venus was in opposition to Saturn on this

Saturn rules fear and this present recession has been the result
of public fear. The mind of the trading public has been stim-
ulated to believe in such unreal states of consciousness as lack,
loss, depression and bad business. These conditions could not
manifest themselves in actuality, if they were not thought and
believed first. In the neat future, economists and Governmental
heads will control booms and depressions through the realisation
that booms and depressions are man-made and the outward results
of men’s thoughts. The Government will then be the master of
economic conditions in this country instead of its helpless victim
in times of depression.

At the end of 1937 Bond prices were 11.9% lower than at the
end of 1936. The Dow-Jones Average for Industrials was 32.8%
lower than it was at the end of 1936. Dow-Jones Rail Averages
were 45.1% below what they were a year ago. The Dow-Jones
Utilities Average was 41.6% below what it was at the end of
1936. Business, in general, was 23.5% lower than at the end
of 1936. Commodity prices also were lower than a year ago.
The year 1937 which had begun so bullish ended definitely
bearish.

The “Recession of 1937” continued into part of 1938 with only
brief rallies in the Stock Market. The first half of the year brought
about the failure of Richard Whitney and Co. and the subse-
quent reorganization of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr.
Whitney was five times President of the New York Stock Ex-
change, and one of the most prominent members of the ;
His conviction for embezzlement reflected on the credit (10%b
bouse matter on the Exchange Chart) of the New York Stock

[ 86 ]

to Mars. This break was the worst for

 

y '

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Exchange. Saturn’s position elevated in the mid-heaven (10%
house) of the New York Stock Exchange pointed out trouble in
regard to officials and the credit standing of the New York Stock
Exchange. This brought about a change in government of the
Exchange with the installation of the first paid president of the
New York Stock Exchange in history.

The month of March, 1938, saw Stock Market prices drift
lower with business activity dull. The lunation of March 2, 1938,
fell in unfavorable opposition aspect to Neptune, one of the
ralets of the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange and a
planet which is usually unfavorably aspected at any lunation pre-
ceding a drop in the Stock Market. One of the worst drops of the
month came on March 29, 1938, when a selling wave took place
and stocks plunged to 1932 levels. Stocks went to three year
lows with the entire list off. The Dow-Jones Industrial Average
dropped 5.33 points. As many as 1,720,000 shares changed
hands. The Moon in Pisces on this date was in opposition aspect
to Neptune, and as it passed over the degree and place of the
lunation, the unfavorable aspects of the New Moon of March 2,
1938, came into effect.

On March 23, 1938, the North Node moved into Scorpio, the
sign which is placed on the “normal or transition” point of the
Business Cycle Chart. This indicated that the Business Curve
should adjust itself to normal, if no unfavorable planetary aspects
were present to act as secondary factors, which would keep the
Business Curve below normal.

A favorable secondary factor of minor strength came into play
in April and this aspect will be in effect most of 1938. It is the
semi-sextile aspect between Saturn and Uranus. Stock did im-
prove in value and business activity assumed renewed vigor dur-
ing the summer months of 1938 and on through the rest of the
year, Saturn in its “key” position on the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange is still unfavorable, but the fact that it is
favorably aspected by Uranus will mitigate this unfavorable in-
fluence to a great extent. The Business Curve, having reached
its technical “normal” point according to this theory, also in-

{ 87 J

 

--- Page 54 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

dicated that Business would improve and stocks advance during
1938. This was a good year to buy. The semi-sextile aspect is not
as strong as the favorable sextile aspect (60 degree angle) be-
tween Saturn and Uranus which took share values upward so
strongly during 1935-1936. It just has half the strength of that
aspect, but it is aided by the fact that the North Node is in Scor-
pio and has reached the technically “normal” point on the Busi-
ness Cycle Chart. This fact should help the Business Curve with
the presence of the minor favorable secondary factor, go slightly
above normal during the last six months of the year. During
1935-36, the technically correct position of the Business Curve
was “below normal,” but the favorable secondary factor of 60
degrees between Saturn and Uranus was very strong and this
lifted the Curve sharply. The first half of 1938 did not look
as strong as the last half of the year, since the Saturn-Uranus as-
pect did act come within orb until April, 1938, and was not exact
until June,

Despite the fact that the Saturn-Uranus aspect was in force dur-
ing the latter half of 1938, the lunations from August to the end
of the year unfavorably aspect Neptune; therefore, it is not pos-
sible to state which condition will outweigh the other and trad-
ing caution is advised towards the end of the year. Two forces
seem to be pulling against each other during this year.

1939

During 1939 two astronomical factors come into play which
will affect the trend of stock prices, bond prices, and general
business activity. The first factor is the passage of Jupiter into
the sign of Pisces where it will pass over the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chart. Jupiter’s position here indi-
cates rising stock market prices, rising bond prices and the return
of the prestige of the New York Stock Exchange. The summer
months do not appear as strong as the spring and fall. No planet
has ever passed over the mid-heaven of the New York Stock

[ 88 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Exchange Chart which has not brought definite changes in the
security and bond markets. Business has usually followed the
Stock Market's trend.

Jupiter, unlike Saturn, is a planet of expansion, and favors
prosperity and the upturn of security prices and business gen-
erally. Even though Jupiter has Saturn in the mid-heaven with it
also, Saturn will have moved far enough away not to cause much
trouble, Therefore, 1939 will prosper the new organization of
the New York Stock Exchange and the trading public will renew
its confidence once more in the market.

The second astronomical factor which will play an important
part in business activity during 1939, is the fact that the North
Node passes out of Scorpio on October 10, 1939, and into the
sign of Libra. This indicates that the Business Curve is now going
from normal to high on the Business Cycle Chart and, if there
are no unfavorable secondary factors present to lower the Curve,
Business activity should go slightly above normal during the next
twelve months.

From the joint testimony of the astronomical factors involved,
it is evident that 1939 should be a very good year both for busi-
ness and the stock market, making allowances, of course, from
time to time, for any temporary dullness that is apt to occur as
part of daily and monthly trends.

WHAT OF THE FUTURE—1940-1950¢

The next ten years will mark one of the most crucial decades
in the history of this country.

The North Node will be going through the signs Libra, Virgo,
and Leo during a four year period, 1940-44. This indicates that
the technical position of the Business Curve will be going from
normal to high and that the Business Curve will reach its “high”
point as the North Node transits Leo during 1943 and 1944.
Business activity should be above normal during this four year
period, if there are no unfavorable secondary planetary factors
ptesent to lower the Curve. This is the basic underlying frame-
work upon which the secondary factors will work. On the Busi-

[ 89 j

 

--- Page 55 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

CHART OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

 

{ 90 }

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ness Cycle Chart these signs are going from normal to above
normal, with the sign Leo marking the “high” point.

From June, 1944, to July, 1947, the North Node will be pass-
ing through Cancer and Gemini and will reach the sign of Taurus
in July, 1947. During this three year period, the Business Curve
will be slowly going from “high” to “normal” on the Business
Cycle Chart or business activity will be slowly going from “above
normal’ activity to “normal.”

When the North Node reaches Taurus in July, 1947, this is a
warning signal that the Business Curve has reached its technically
normal position and that this transit marks out a transition period
before the Business Curve turns definitely downward for a four
year period.

Saturn and Uranus will also be in orb of a conjunction aspect
during 1940, 1941, and 1942 in Taurus, Saturn and Uranus in
conjunction aspect usually brings declining prices, depression,
and financial panics. This is a warning ahead of time to the gov-
ernmental heads of this country that this country is headed for a
more severe deptession than the one which we have just been
through unless steps are taken now to prevent its occurrence.

From May, 1941 until June, 1942, Jupiter will be in the sign
of Gemini, which strongly influences the United States. This will
mitigate to some extent the unfavorable influence of the Saturn
and Uranus conjunction. Jupiter’s passage through Gemuni is
usually accompanied by rising prices and bullish business con-
ditions. Two sets of financial conditions will mark this period
due to the presence of both favorable and unfavorable secondary
factors.

The presence of three major planets, Saturn, Jupiter, and
Uranus, in orb of a conjunction aspect with each other in the
sign of Taurus portend drastic and unusual conditions affecting
this country during the last half of 1940 and the first half of
1941. Now is the time to prepare for the future and prevent the
happening of conditions which we do not want to occur.

In May, 1942, both Saturn and Uranus enter the sign of
Gemini, which depicts conditions affecting the United States as a

[91 }

 

--- Page 56 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

whole. This conjunction of these two powerful planets in the
sign ruling the United States is very significant. Depression and
financial difficulties will engross the entire country, unless the
most drastic steps are taken by those at the head of our Govern-
ment. This configuration of planets is even more significant when
the fact is taken into consideration that the transit of Uranus
through Gemini every 84 years has brought war to this country.
In 1776 Uranus was in Gemini and we had the Revolutionary
War. Then, 84 years later {it takes Uranus 84 years to pass
through the twelve signs of the zodiac and return to its starting
point) Uranus was again in Gemini, and the War between the
States occurred in 1860. Since the Civil War, Uranus has not
been in the sign of Gemini, but goes into that sign in May, 1942.
It is doubly significant at this time since it is in conjunction with
Saturn, also in Gemini, and will be placed in this relattonship
through June, 1944. Uranus has never passed through Gemini
without bringing war, depression, and declining prices, Saturn
has never passed through Gemini during the past 72 years with-
out bringing a business depression, financial panic or war. Since
1850, Saturn has passed through the sign of Gemini three times
and each transit has marked 2 critical period in the history of this
country. Saturn was in Gemini in 1855-56. The Panic of 1857
followed this transit. The years 1883-84-85 again saw Saturn in
the sign of Gemini and the Panic and Depression of 1884 took
place. Saturn was again in Gemini from 1912 to 1914, This
transit brought about the entrance of this country into the World
War and the subsequent closing of the New York Stock Ex-
change.

In view of this imposing testimony, taken when Satumm and
Uranus have passed through Gemini singly, it is little wonder

that the combined strength of these two planets portend a most .

critical time in this country's history. This combination of plan-
etary influence points out war, depression, governmental change,
social upheaval, and 2 financial panic. None of this unpleasant
picture has to materialize, if steps are made now to acquaint our
Governmental heads with the laws that govern our universe.

[92]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

A knowledge of astrology is the only way out. It is doubtful,
though, that mankind will do anything about it, for they are
unwilling to learn how the majority of our people have reacted
to planetary stimuli in the past.

During 1944, 1945, and 1946 Saturn will pass through the
sign of Cancer, which rules the ascendant of the New York
Stock Exchange Chart, and a sign which strongly influences the
United States also. This indicates some drastic changes in the
financial world, the New York Stock Exchange itself, and in the
Government during these three years.

Uranus will be in Gemini until June, 1949. Thus it will be
in this country’s ruling sign for about seven years.

During October, November, and December, 1944, and during
the first nine months of 1945, Saturn and Uranus will be in a
minor favorable semi-sextile aspect (30 degrees}. This may result
in improved business conditions and an upturn in security prices
during this time. This aspect, however, is of minor strength and
it is hard to tell just how much of a rise, if any, it will bring.

During the fall of 1947, during all year of 1948, and until the
fall of 1949, a very favorable secondary factor will be in force
which should cause stocks to rise, bonds to rise, and business
boom generally. This aspect is the major favorable sextile aspect
(60 degree angle) between Saturn and Uranus. It was this aspect
which caused the rise in security prices during 1935-37.

The Moon's North Node moves into Aries January 31, 1949.
This indicates that the technical position of the Business Curve is
now below normal, even though favorable secondary factors keep
the Curve above normal until the aspect passes, This occurs in
the late fall of 1949.

During 1950, Saturn is in the sign of Virgo and is moving
toward an opposition aspect with the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart. This indicates that in the fall of
1950 bond and security prices will go lower and possibly slump.

On August 19, 1950, the Moon’s North Node passes into
Pisces taking the technical normal position of the Business Curve
further below the normal line. In December, 1950, Saturn

[93 ]

 

--- Page 57 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

forms a very unfavorable square (90 degree) aspect with Uranus,
and prices will go much lower with business activity far below
normal. Stocks and bonds will be in a Bear Market in the midst
of a depression period well into 1951.

The information given in this ten year general outlook will
make money for those individuals who plan their financial future
ahead of time. For those who are not interested in a planned
financial future, there is little chance that they will be able to sut-
vive the next decade with its financial upheavals. The old hit-
and-miss system, guess work, and methods which have worked
during the preceding business cycles will be of little use in the
complicated ten years we ate to go through shortly.

Time will confirm the truth contained in this forecast. The
gecognition of this method of forecasting economic cycles should
be brought to the attention of the present Administration, and
particulariy to the attention of those who hope to be in power
after 1940. Much can be done by the present Administration in
the remaining two years (this is being written early 1938) to
prevent the collapse of our economic structure, in the future, but

the laws of nature, governing supply and demand, must be .
nized and utilized now. seer EF

[94]

 

Chapter HI

How to Forecast Monthly and Daily
Trends onthe New York Stock Exchange

Te most reliable method for forecasting monthly trends on
the New York Stock Exchange for any desired month in
advance is to take the planetary positions at the lunation of the
previous month and place these planetary positions in their
tight positions om the Chart of the New York Stock Exchange.
A copy of this Chart, which was originated by the writer after
a long period of economic research, accompanies this chapter.
Any bookstore that deals in astrological supplies carries pads of
blank astrological charts and a copy of this chart can be quickly
drawn off on a blank chart by simply copying the house-cusps,
signs anid degrees.

The planetary positions for every month, at the time of the
lunation or New Moon, ate given for every year from 1938
through 1950 in Chapter VI of this book. The planetary aspects
ot angular relationships of the planets at the time of the luna-
tion are also given in this chapter. This information will prove
invaluable in guiding traders as to just what the Stock Masket
will do during the ensuing twenty-eight days.

The best way to learn how to forecast the Stock Market's trend
in advance is to take an ‘‘example month” and work it out. After
doing a number of charts for months in advance and then watch-
ing the reaction of the Stock Market as it actually takes place,
anyone can soon learn to get a quick off-hand knowledge of what
to expect in the Stock Market. The value of this method lies in
the fact that it tells you at any time in advance WHAT month the
Stock Market is apt to have a sharp drop or what month the

[95 }

 

--- Page 58 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
STOCK MARKET CHART

 

[ 96]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stack Market Forecasting

Stock Market is apt to be strongly bullish. No other method
used today by chart-readers offers such acivantages.

For an “example month,” when a lower trend for stocks was
clearly pointed out, let us take the month of March, 1938. The
entire month was marked by a drop in the various stock market
averages and many stocks dropped to 1932 lows. How was this
fact pointed out?

Turning to the Ephemeris in Chapter VI, we find that each
New Moon or lunation occurs every twenty-eight days and that
this lunation, by the angular relationship of the planets at the
time of the New Moon, points out the trend of the New York
Stock Market during the coming twenty-eight days.

The nearest junation or New Moon, which precedes the month
of March generally, occurred March 2, 1938. (As a mile the
lunation affecting the coming month is given in the month be-
fore, which in this case would be February, 1938. The Ephemeris,
however, states that there was ‘no New Moon in February”; 90
the lunation of March 2, 1938 is used to give the indications for
the month of March).

On March 2, 1938, at the time of the lunation, the positions
of the planets were as follows: Sun 10 degrees Pisces; Moon 10
degrees Pisces; Neptune 20 degrees Virgo retrograde; Uranus 10
degrees Taurus; Saturn 4 degrees Aries; Jupiter 16 degrees
Aquarius; Mats 22 degrees Aries; Venus 17 degrees Pisces;
Mercury 5 degrees Pisces. The Moon's North Node, which de-
fines the general curve of economic cycles, was in 1 degree Sagit-
tarius. These planets placed around a skeleton New York Stock
Exchange Chart pointed out, by their positions and angular rela-
tionships to each other, the unstable Stock Market condition of
March, 1938.

It is necessary in this subject as well as in any other subject to
use abbreviations and symbols whenever possible to conserve both
time and energy. It is easy to place the signs with their degrees
around the skeleton chart of the New York Stock Exchange
whereas it is awkward and tedious to write the words and de-
grees out on the chart. From now on the abbreviations and

[97 ]

 

--- Page 59 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

“short-hand” symbols for the signs and planets as well as their
angles will be used in this chapter and other parts of the book;
therefore a brief table is given here for the reader to familiarize
himself with and the more quickly these symbols are learned, the
easier it will be to give a quick and accurate judgment of stock
conditions at any time.

LHE TWELVE SIGNS

Symbol Symbol
I. ARIES 20? 7. LIBRA ae
2. TAURUS Uy 8. SCORPIO ww. Th.
3, GEMINI .. 9. SAGITTARIUS .......... #1
4. CANCER 22% 10. CAPRICORN |v
5. LEO wo gL 11, AQUARIUS ear

THE TEN KNOWN PLANETS

Symbol Sign it rules
1. MARS 2 ARIES cee -
2. VENUS _.w uw _.... 9 TAURUS and LIBRA... %, om
3. MERCURY ww 8 GEMINI and VIRGO.. 3, tp
4. MOON _ dD CANCER uw. oe
7, JUPITER mw =) SAGITTARIUS x
8. SATURN Ub CAPRICORN VE
>. URANUS _w AQUARIUS oni
10. NEPTUNE __..... v PISCES 20000 vs

The Sun and Moon are not strictly planets in an astronomical
sense, but in this work they are so labelled in order to simplify
matters.

It also will be noticed that two planets have rulership over
two signs each, This is due to the fact that there are only ten
planets known. Like the chemist, we use what we have, although

[ 98 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

we know at some time two planets will be discovered which
rule Taurus and Gemini. However, every planet has a sign in
which it is almost as strong as in the sign it rules; therefore, it
is all tight to use Venus and Mercury as the rulers of Taurus
and Gemini until research in astronomy gives us the two missing
lanets.

P It is also necessary to know a few elementary facts regatding
the Chart of the New York Stock Exchange. These facts apply
to all charts, and they should be learned carefully. ,

Each chart has twelve sections, one for each sign of the zodiac.
The signs placed on these twelve cusps or spokes are arranged
counter-clockwise, and so are the planets. Each sign has 30
degrees in it and the degree which falls on the cusp tells where
a planet is to be placed on the chart. For instance, on the exam-
ple chart for March the Sun (©) and Moon (>) fell in 10
degrees Pisces. Since this degree falls before 24-28 degrees
Pisces (><) which is the sign on the tenth cusp, the Sun and
Moon fall in the 9th section of the chart instead of the 10th
section or “house.” The planet Uranus, on this chart, fell in
10 degrees Taurus (%) and since zero degrees Taurus falls on
the 11th section of the chart, Uranus actually falls in the 11th
section or “house.” (The twelve sections of a chart are called
““houses’’.)

It sometimes happens that a sign will be intercepted in a
“house”, making two signs with their corresponding planetary
rulers, governors of that particular section. This is due to the
fact that charts set up for different latitudes “cut” the zodiac into
different sized sections.

Most charts will have degrees and minutes on the cusp of the
ist house or ascendant, but it will be noticed that the Chart of
the New York Stock Exchange has the connotation “14-17 de-
grees Cancer (°5)” on the first house or ascendant and the nota-
tion 24-28 degrees Pisces (3¢€) on the tenth house or mid-
heaven of the same Chart. Do not let this confuse you. It
merely means that these degrees have been found to include a
sensitive area in connection with stock market trends whenever
subject to planetary transits.

[99 ]

 

--- Page 60 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Most of the terms and words used in this work, not generally
used in the avetage person's vocabulary, are included in Chapter
VII, entitled "Glossary of Terms’, where they can be found for
ready reference at any time. Ao explanation here, however, was
deemed advisable, inasmuch as few persons can understand a
chart who have not had some instruction along the above lines.

The Chart of the New York Stock Exchange becomes more
comprehensible with the above facts in mind.

Any month up to 1950 may be forecast for any time in advance
by placing the lunation Planetary positions affecting the month in
question around a copy of the New York Stock Exchange Chart.

After the planets have been placed around the chart in their
ptoper house positions, the following facts must be sought:

(1) If there are any major planets placed in the 10th house
or mid-heaven of the chart; if there are any planets placed in the
Ist house or ascendant of the chart; and if there are any planets
in the 4th house or 7th house of the chart. The angles listed
here are given in the order of their importance, that is, 10th, 1st,
4th and 7th, in diagnosing market conditions.

If there are major planets (that is, all the planets except Venus
and Mercury) in the houses or sections mentioned they become
so-called “key” planets, for aspects to them at a lunation become
highly important in making market forecasts.

Planets on the mid-heaven or i0th house are the most impor-
tant of all in making judgment of stock trends for the coming
month. These planets are to be taken into account along with
the two rulers of the 10th house or mid-heaven of the New York
Stock Exchange Chart. These miers ate Neptune and Mars,
because they rule the signs Pisces and Aries respectively, which
are placed on this section of the chart.

(2) If the Junation or New Moon is in favorable or unfavor-
able aspect to Neptune or Mars, the two rulers of the mid-
heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart; if the iunation
ot New Moon is in favorable aspect to the “key” planet or in
unfavorable aspect to the “key” planet (if there is one).

(3) The last point, which should be noted particularly, in

[ 100 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

connection with market conditions is the fact whether Satutn and
Uranus are in favorable aspect to each other; in unfavorable
aspect to each other; or not in aspect at all.

If Saturn and Uranus are in favorable aspect with each other
that is, placed 120, 60, or 30 degrees from each other, the Stock
Market will rise for the extent of this aspect. The aspects are
given in the order of their strength or importance. That is, the
trine aspect, sextile aspect and semi-sextile aspect.

If Saturn and Uranus are in unfavorable aspect with each other,
that is, placed in conjunction, 180, 90, 135 or 45 degrees from
each other, the trend of stocks will be down for the extent of
the aspect.

The conjunction aspect between Saturn and Uranus, if power-
fully aspected by Jupiter or Neptune, from a favorable angle, is
vatiable and may or may not point out a drop in the Stock
Market. The unfavorable aspects between Saturn and Uranus are
listed in the order of their strength of importance, that is, the
conjunction, opposition, square, sesqui-quadrate and semi-square

There are 360 degrees in a chart and it is an easy matter
to determine whether planets are in favorable or unfavorable
aspect to each other by simple arithmetic. However, for readers
who are not mathematically inclined, the following table will
give the information whether Satarn and Uranus are in favor-
able or unfavorable aspect at any time. This information can
be used to determine the telationship between any other of the
planets as well.

* me * * + *

Planets which are in the same sign of the zodiac, and within
9 degrees of each other, are in conjunction aspect. The symbol
for the conjunction aspect is 4. (For example, a planet in 2
degrees Aries and a planet in 7 degrees aspect are in conjunction
aspect, because they are within 9 degrees of each other. A planet
in 1 degree Aries and a planet in 10 degrees Arties are in con-
junction aspect because they are within 9 degrees of each other,
etc.).
Planets which ate placed one sign apart, or 30 degrees apart,

F101}

 

--- Page 61 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

are in semi-sextile aspect. Allow an orb of 3 degrees either
way. The symbol for the semi-sextile aspect is y.

Planets which are two signs apart are in sextile aspect (60
degrees), if they are within 5 degrees of each other. The sign
for the sextile aspect is >k.

Planets which are one and a half signs apart are in semi-square
aspect (45 degrees), if they are within 3 degrees of each other.
The symbol for the semi-squate aspect is \/.

Planets which are placed three signs apart are in square aspect
(90 degrees), if they are within 5 degrees of each other. The
symbol for the square aspect ts [‘].

Planets which are four signs apart are in trine aspect (120
degrees), if they are within 5 degrees of each other. The symbol
for the trine aspect is A.

Planets which are four and a half signs apart are in sesqui-
quadrate aspect (135 degrees), if they are within 3 degrees of
each other. The symbol for the sesqui-quadrate aspect is (1.

Planets which are six signs apart are in opposition aspect (180
degrees), if they are within 9 degrees of each other. The symbol
for the opposition aspect is @.

Planets which are seven signs apart are in semi-sextile aspect
(210 degrees—180 degrees plus 30 degrees), if they are within
3 degrees of each other.

Planets which are seven and a half signs apart are in semi-
Square aspect (225 degrees—t80 degrees plus 45 degrees), if
they are within 3 degrees of each other.

Planets which are 8 signs apart are in trine aspect (240 de-
grees), if they are within 5 degrees of each other.

Planets which are 9 signs apart are in square aspect (270
degrees), if they are within 5 degrees of each other.

Planets which are 10 signs apart are in sextile aspect (300
degrees), if they are within 5 degrees of each other.

Planets which are 11 signs apart are in semi-sextile aspect (330
degrees), if they are within 3 degrees of each other.

Planets which are 10 and a@ half signs apart are in sesqui-

f 102 }

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting
quadrate aspect (315 degrees), if they are within 3 degrees of
each other.

This table of aspects and angles, with their symbols, will give
alt the information necessary in reading a chart. The lunation or
New Moon aspects have already been worked out and they are
given in Chapter VI of this book along with the planetary posi-
tions of each New Moon.

After the planets have been placed around the example Chart
of the New York Stock Exchange for March, 1938, several fac-
tors are noticeable. (See Figure I on page 104).

(1) The first factor is that the depressing planet Saturn is
placed in the mid-heaven or 10th house of the chart.

(2) Mars, one of the planetary rulers of the mid-heaven of
the chart, is in the 10th house or mid-heaven.

(3) The aspects in force at the lunation showed no aspects
to either Mars or Saturn, but the lunation did show Neptune in
opposition aspect to the lunation (conjunction of the Sun and
Moon).

Neptune is one of the rulers of the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart, and the fact that the lunation formed
an unfavorable opposition aspect to it showed a slump in stock
prices. Since the lunation made no aspect to either Mars ot
Saturn, their influence would not be brought into effect at this
time. Unfavorable aspects to Neptune at a lunation, especially,
if no favorable aspect between Saturn and Uranus was in force
at the same time, usually indicates a sharp break in stock market

rices.

Saturn and Uranus, although one sign apart, were not in orb
af aspect for a semi-sextile aspect, since they were six degrees
apatt. Three degrees apart is the maximum orb for this aspect, as
is given in the above tabulation.

The conclusion reached, through this method of forecasting
the trend of the Stock Market, was that prices were going lower
at this time and that March might possibly witness a slump or
sharp break during the month.

What actually happened, as any one can verify by reference

{ 103 |

 

 

--- Page 62 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

PLANETARY POSITIONS—MARCH 2, 1938
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE CHART

 

FIG. I--THIS CHART FORECASTS A DOWNTURN IN THE
STOCK MARKET

Aspects or Angles in force at this Lunation are:

Sun and Moon Opposition Neptune
Sun and Moon Sextile Uranus

Sun and Moon Semi-Sextile Jupiter
Sun and Moon Conjunction Venus

{ 104 }

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

to the newspapers for March, stocks went lower during the entire
month, and on March 29, 1938, as the Moon passed over the
degree of the lunation of March 2, 1938, the full force of the
unfavorable aspect to Neptune was brought into play and stocks
plunged downward in a selling wave that hit three year lows.
Stocks were at their 1932 level.

For an “example month” when an upturn in stock market
ptices was indicated (at the lunation occurring previous to the
upturn) we wil] take the month of June, 1938.

By turning to the EPHEMERIS in Chapter VI, we see that a
lunation or New Moon occurred on May 29, 1938, and on June
27, 1938. Since we want the lunation covering the month of
June, 1938, we will take the lunation of May 29, 1938. (The
New Moon of June 27, 1938 would cover the month of July,
1938.)

The planetary positions on May 29, 1938, were as follows:
“Sun 6 degrees Gemini; Moon 6 degrees Gemini; Neptune 18
degrees Virgo, retrograde; Uranus 15 degrees Taurus; Saturn 14
degrees Aries; Jupiter 1 degree Pisces; Mars 23 degrees Gemini;
Venus 5 degrees Cancer; Mercury 13 degrees Taurus. The
Moon’s North Node was in 27 degrees Scorpio. Aspects in
force at this lunation were Sun and Moon semi-square Saturn;
square Jupiter; semi-sextile Venus.’

When these planetary positions are placed around the New
York Stock Exchange Chart (see Figure ll on page 106), we find
three notable facts:

(1) The lunatior. (conjunction of the Sun and Moon every
twenty-eight days) made no aspect to Neptune or Mars, the two
planetary rulers of the New York Stock Exchange Chart’s mid-
heaven or 10th house.

(2) The two planets which point out major trends in the
Stock Market, Saturn and Uranus, were in close semi-sextile aspect
(30 degrees) which is favorable.

(3) At the same time Mercury was ia conjunction with
Uranus; and both Mercury and Uranus were in a very favorable
trine (120 degrees) aspect with Neptune. Mercury also was in

F 105 }

 

--- Page 63 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

PLANETARY POSITIONS—MAY 29, 1938
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE CHART

 

FIG, Ik--THIS CHART FORECASTS AN UPTURN IN THE
STOCK MARKET

Aspects in force at this Lunation are:
Sun and Moon Semi-Square Saturo

Sun and Moon Square Jupiter
Sun and Moon Semi-Sextile Venus

[ 106 J

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

favorable semi-sextile aspect to the very powerful planet Saturn.

Favorable aspects between Saturn and Uranus always indicate
an upturn in the stock market which will last as long as the
aspect is in force. All aspects between Saturn and Uranus are
very significant in studying stock market trends. The semi-
sextile aspect did not come into effect between these two planets
until they had become almost exact due to the fact that the semi-
sextile aspect is only a minor favorable aspect and the orb of its
influence does not extend beyond an area of three degrees (see
the tabulation of aspects and their orb of influence listed in this
Chapter).

One fact should be pointed out here. Raphael’s Ephemeris
lists the lunation of May 29, 1938, as in semi-square aspect to
Saturn. They allow large orbs of influence and in this work we
allow only three degrees for a semi-square aspect orb; therefore,
although listed as such in the Ephemeris the lunation did not
actually form a semi-squate aspect to Saturn, unless wide orbs
of influence are used, and these have not been found advisable
in studying stock market trends.

Although the upturn in the stock market was indicated for the
month of June, the rise did not begin until June 20, 1938. On
this date the Moon was passing over the mid-heaven of the New
York Stock Exchange Chart. It is a noticeable fact that when
marked daily changes occur in the stock market, such as a sharp

drop or a sharp tise, the Moon is usually in one of the angles of

the New York Stock Exchange Chart, that is in the signs Pisces,
Aries, Cancer, Virgo, Libra, or Capricorn.

Mars is usually involved when there is an active stock market.

either for buying or selling. In this case we find that at the
lunation of May 29, 1938, Mars was in 23 degrees Gemini and
unaspected. Mercury which was in conjunction with Uranus
and semi-sextile Saturn at the time of the lunation, reached 23-25
degrees Gemini, the place of Mars at the funation over the week-
end and came into play in stock market action Monday, June 20,
1938. Mercury was the planet which acted to bring the lunation
indications into force, since it was the planet which aspected

f 107 }

 

--- Page 64 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune at the new Moon. If Saturn or
Uranus had been strongly aspected by the lunation, the Moon's
passage, or the Sun’s passage, over 23-25 degrees Gemini, the
place of Mats at the lunation, would have brought out the uptutn
in the stock market predicted May 29, 1938. This is further
proof that the lunation was not in orb of a semi-square aspect
with Saturn, in so far as this work is concerned, even though it
is listed in the Ephemeris as such. Wide orbs do not work in
forecasting stock market conditions and none should be used
except those given in this Chapter; otherwise your market fore-
casting will go sadly awry.

Thus it is seen that the rise in the stock market averages was
foretold by the fact that Saturn and Uranus came into favorable
aspect with each other in June, 1938. This fact was pointed out
at the previous lunation of May 29, 1938, by Mercury being in
conjunction with Uranus; both planets being in semi-sextile
aspect to Saturn, a key planet, since it is placed on the mid-
heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart; and both
Mercury and Uranus being in very favorable trine (120 degrees)
aspect with Neptune, one of the rulers of the mid-heaven of the
New York Stock Exchange Chatt.

When Mercury reached the place of Mars, the other ruler of
the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange Chart, and a
planet usually involved in active stock market buying and selling,
on Monday, June 20, 1938, the stock market rise began.

Aspects between Saturn and Uranus govern major bull and
bear markets, as well as secondary rises and slumps, and this
upturn in the stock market will last as long as the favorable aspect
between Saturn and Uranus is in force. The semi-sextile aspect
between Saturn and Uranus has just half the force of the sextile
aspect (60 degrees) which existed between Saturn and Uranus
from March, 1935 and effected market conditions until August,
1937. Traders should keep this fact in mind. The Dow-Jones
Industrial Averages stood at 107.74 May 31, 1938, and by July
2, 1938, had risen to 138.53. With a little practice, anyone who
studies the rules laid down in this chapter can forecast the major

{ 108 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stack Market Forecasting

uptumns and downturns in the stock market averages. The
monthly and daily trends of the stock market are easily forecast
through the method and rules laid down in this chapter. Like
any other subject, practice, in analysing market conditions through
this method, makes for perfection and accuracy.

The rules laid down in this Chapter are particularly applicable
for studying the fluctuations in the Dow-Jones Stock Market
Averages.

This method of forecasting the trend of the stock market is in
its infancy and offers unlimited possibilities for research and
study. For the first time in history, it offers a method for fore-
casting economic cycles years, months and days in advance, which
is based on natural law. The study of these rules will doubly
repay anyone. It offers to the man with a small capital a chance
for economic security. Above all, it teaches you when to get in
and when to get out of the stock market.

All that is written in this book is not all there is to the subject.
That would require many books to contain so vast an amount of
economic history. It is, however, an attempt to place economic
secutity within the reach of all through a method of planned
investment and economic research.

No one can account for slumps and booms in reality. Any
number of reasons are given out after the condition occurs ex-
plaining its reason for happening. This is ali right as far as
it goes, but our theory goes farther, it tells you in advance how
to prevent the manifestation of an undesirable economic condition.
Extremes are not desirable. Booms are inevitably followed by
depression and human suffering. This book points out a way
for a more stable national security.

{ 109 }

 

--- Page 65 ---
Chapter V

How to Forecast Trends of Individual

Stocks

NOTHING would be more advantageous to the average trader
than a simplified method whereby he could teli at a glance
the futute possibilities of a stock for investment purposes. This
chapter offers such a system based on the transits of the major
planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto) in aspect
to the Sun, Moon, and planetary ruler of the sign under which
the stock was incorporated. (The twelve signs of the zodtac and
their planetary rulers are given in Chapter HII). Usually the
trends of most stocks (either up, down or steady) conforms to
the general trend of the Stock Market, but there are always some
stocks which move opposite to the general trend and it is very
important to know these stocks to avoid tying up money in a
company which is not going to show profit. Secondly, everyone
wants to know when a stock has reached a low buying level and
the only way this information can be obtained is by studying the
stock individually and noting what the stock has done in the past.
Chapter V in this book gives the date and place of incorporation
of every important stock listed at the present time on the New
York Stock Exchange. It is a simple matter to work out the
planetary positions from the date and place of incorporation and
to then set these planetary positions around a chart as in Example
I, the chart of UJ, S. Steel, and find out by studying the transits to
the planetary positions of the stock in question what it offers in
the way of profitable investment for the future.

The transits of the planets are given for every month from
1938 through 1950 in Chapter VI.

{ 110]

 

McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

The best way to learn how to forecast the future possibilities
of a stock is to take a stock as an example and go through the
process. By repeating the process several times, it becomes an
easy matter to tell what any stock will do in the next twelve years.

As “Example I’ let us take U. S. Steel (X). To be able to
forecast this stock is important for several reasons. It is the
leading stock of the Steel industry and any move made by this
company is always regarded significantly by the business and finan-
cial world. During the September and October, 1937 slumps,
U. S. Steel and the general trend of the Stock Market moved so
similarly that an investigating committee, probing the cause of the
slumps, studied the trading volume of U. 8. Steel exclusively.
Dividends paid by this company are always watched closely as
indications of future market action. In order to study this im-
portant stock according to the transit method of this Chapter, it
is necessary to know its planetary positions, which are grven in
Chapter V.

The list of stocks, arranged alphabetically in Chapter V, giving
the planetary positions of some important stocks listed on the
New York Stock Exchange, follows the order of stocks listed on
the “Big Board” which appear daily in the newspapers. The
planetary positions of a stock are obtained from its incorporation
date, if this is known; otherwise from its date of establishment
or organization date.

In order to find the planetary positions of U. S. Steel, we turn
to Chapter V and run down the alphabet until we come to the
stock listing:

“U. §. STEEL (X) incorporated February 23, 1901, in New
Jersey. Sun 4 degrees Pisces; Moon 4 degrees Taurus; Neptune
26 degtees Gemini Retrograde; Uranus 16 degrees Sagittartus;
Saturn 13 degrees Capricorn; Jupiter 6 degrees Capricorm; Mars’
2 degrees Virgo Retrograde; Venus 17 degrees Aquarius; Mer-
cury 21 degrees Pisces; the Moon's North Node 27 degrees
Scorpio.”

The next step is to place these planetary positions on a chart
or wheel as in “Example I.” The Sun’s degree is placed on the

f 111}

 

--- Page 66 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

 

EXAMPLE I—THE UNITED STATES STEEL CORPORATION
CHART. INCORPORATED FEBRUARY 23, 1901 IN NEW JERSEY.

f 112 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ascendant or first house with the Sun on the cusp of the first
house. (See the chart of U. S. Steel, which is Example I). The
other eleven cusps of the chart take the next degree, which in
this case is 5, and the signs follow in their natural order until
there is a sign on all the cusps of the chart. The Sun's degree was
4 Pisces in the case of U. 8. Steel. The sign following Pisces
is Aries and it carries the figure 5 to show 5 degrees Aries; the
sign which normally follows Aries in the zodiac is Taurus, and
Taurus 5 degrees is placed on the third cusp. The sign which
follows Taurus in the zodiac is Gemini and the symbol fot
Gemini 5 degrees is put on the cusp of the fourth house; and so
forth around the chart, until there is a sign on each of the twelve
cusps or houses of the chart. (The order of the 12 signs of the
zodiac with their symbols is given in Chapter II, page 98).

The other nine planets are filled in on the chart in their
proper houses or positions.

According to the list of planetary positions for U. 8. Steel the
Moon is 4 degrees Taurus. Since Taurus (¥ ) 5 degrees falls on
the cusp of the 2nd house, the Moon {p> ) would fall slightly
above the 2nd house. Remember the signs and planets are
arranged counter-clockwise on the chart. Symbols for the signs
and planets are used on the chart and these symbols are given in
Chapter III. It is much easier and simpler to use the symbols for
the signs and planets instead of writing them out.

Neptune (‘f) falls in 26 degrees Gemini (3), in the list of
this Company’s planetary positions. Since 5 degrees Gemini falls
on the cusp of the fourth house and 5 degrees Cancer on the
cusp of the fifth house, 26 degrees Gemini comes between these
two points and Neptune is placed in the fourth house. Neptune
is listed Retrograde (Rx) in the list and this means that while
the other planets are moving direct in motion or counter-clockwise
at the time this stock was incorporated, Neptune was moving
backwards in its orbit or in clockwise motion. Retrograde planets
do not seem to have as strong an influence in a chart as planets
which are moving in direct motion. The Sun and Moon are
always direct in motion; they are never Retrograde; therefore,

{ 113 }

 

--- Page 67 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

their positions are always important when analysing a stock's
future. In the list of those planetary positions given in
Chapter V, those stocks incorporated or organized from 1850-
1930 have their positions given in terms of Greenwich Mean
Time Noon. Those stocks listed as being incorporated from
1931 until the ptesent date have their planetary positions given
in terms of Greenwich Mean Time Midnight. Thuis fact is men-
tioned for those individuals interested in working out the minutes
on the degrees listed. For the average trader the minutes are
not important and therefore they have been omitted from the
planetary examples listed for the stocks in Chapter V. For ana-
lysing the future outlook for any stock the degrees of the planets
are all that is needed, since hour of incorporation is not known
for many stocks, and the transit method seems to work better
when using the simple outline given in the examples listed in
this Chapter.

The next planet in the list to be placed on the chart is Uranus
(uf) which is in 16 degrees Sagittarius (7%). 5 degrees Sagit-
tarius falls on the 10th house cusp and 5 degrees Capricorn
on the 11th house cusp. Thus 16 degrees Sagittarius falls be-
tween these two points and therefore Uranus is placed in the
10th house.

Saturn (% ) is 13 degrees Capricorn (V9) and this point falls
between the 11th and 12th house on the chart since 5 degrees
Capricorn is on the 11th house cusp and 5 degrees Aquarius is
on the 12th house cusp.

Jupiter (24) is 6 degrees Capricorn (v9) and this point falls
right under the 11th house cusp.

Mars (4) is 2 degrees Virgo (np). This planet is marked
by the Retrograde symbol (Rx) because it was moving backward
in its orbit at the time this stock was incorporated. 2 degrees
Virgo falls between 5 degrees Leo and 5 degrees Virgo; there-
fore, Mars should be placed just under the 7th house cusp. Usu-
ally the same degree (in this case 4} is put on the seventh house
cusp which the Sun carries. Either 4 or 5 is all right.

Venus (¢) is 17 degrees Aquarius (2) and this point falls

{114}

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

between 5 degrees Aquarius and 4 degrees Pisces; therefore, it is
placed in the 12th house.

Mercury (¥) is 21 degrees Pisces (1¢) and falls between 4
degrees Pisces and 5 degrees Aries; it is, therefore, put in the
1st house. The Moon’s North Node (9) is 27 degrees Scorpio
(1) and this point falls between 5 degrees Scorpio and 5
degrees Sagittarius, The Moon's North Node is therefore placed
in the 9th house. The Moon’s South Node (23) falls exactly
opposite this point in the opposite sign of the zodiac. It is
therefore put in the third house in 27 degrees Taurus. These
important points are always noted as they often give a clue as to
whether the stock would work with the general trend of the stock
market and business cycle or against it in its own general cycle.
In the case of U. S. Steel we see that this stock would move along
basically with the general trend of business and the stock market
due to the fact that Scorpio is the sign on the Business Cycle
Chart marking the transition point from normal to above normal
business activity; and Taurus is the sign on the Business Cycle
Chart which marks the transition point from normal business
activity to below normal business volume and economic condi-
tions. (For a copy of ibe Business Cycle Chart as originated by
the writer, see Chapter 1.)

The North Node has an expansive influence similar to Jupiter.
The South Node has a restrictive influence similar to Saturn.
In the list of planetary positions of leading stocks given in
Chapter V the North Node only is given because the South Node
always carries the same degree as the North Node in the sign
exactly opposite (180 degrees away) from the sign in which the
North Node is placed. The signs of the zodiac and their sign

opposites are:

ARIES 00 nn. LIBRA
TAURUS |. SCORPIO
GEMINI ____ SAGITTARIUS
CANCER ._... CAPRICORN
0 AQUARIUS
VIRGO _w PISCES

 

--- Page 68 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

There are a number of stocks listed on the New York Stock
Exchange which work against the genetal trend of the stock
market due to their own individual stock cycles. It is a com-
paratively easy matter to know how any stock’s cycle is related
to the business cycle or general trend of the stock market by
simply noting the Node positions of a stock and then comparing
these signs positions with the Business Cycle Chart.

In the case of U. S. Steel it is easy to see that this stock would
move with the general trend of business and the general trend
of the stock market. As a proof of this (which took place
recently), last September (1937) stocks shimped and the business
curve tutned downward. U. §. Steel broke during the slump
from 104.5 to 80.5. The New York Stock Exchange sent out a
questionnaire to all Exchange members and member firms to get
information on this stock’s buying and selling, in order to find
out what was back of the market slump. They explained that this
stock was selected because as U. $8. Steel had gone; so had gone
the stock market!

Another fact concerning this stock is that it is incorporated
under the sign of Pisces, which is the sign on the mid-heaven of
the New York Stock Exchange Chart. (For a copy of this Chart
see Chapter Til). This shows a further tie-up between U. §.
Steel's trend and the trend of the stock market. Planetary trans-
sits throngh Pisces or in aspect to Pisces would naturally affect
the trend of the stock market and the trend of U. 8. Steel simt-
larly. From 1935 to 1937 Saturn was passing through the sign
of Pisces. Uranus was in favorable aspect to Saturn until 1937
and U. S. Steel rose with the stock market consistently, breaking
only in April, 1937, and in September and October, 1937, during
the market breaks at that time. In 1935 U. S. Steel had a deficit
of $2.77 per share. During 1936 earnings amounted to $2.90
per share and the stock sold between 15.99 and 27.54 times its
earnings. During 1937 the earnings of U. S. Steel amounted to
$8.01 per share with the stock selling between 6.05 and 15.79
times its earnings. This compared with 1929 when the earnings
of this stock amounted to $21.19 per share and the stock sold

[116]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

between 7.08 and 12.35 times its earnings. In 1920, the epoch-
making planet Uranus went into the sign of Pisces and did not
leave this sign until 1927. This passage of Uranus out of Ptsces
culminated in the forming of new stock for U. S. Steel.

After the planetary positions of a stock have been placed
around a chart in their proper positions, the next and most impor-
tant step is to study out the future investment possibilities of the
stock from the chart thus set up. (All stocks have their charts
set up in exactly the same manner as U. S. Steel, the example used
here in this analysis.)

The Sun (Q@) in any chart stands for the Company; and has
to do with the organization, management and aims of the com-
pany; the officers, and products of the firm. The Sun, and the
planetary aspects to the Sun, both at the incorporation date, and
at any future time clearly point out the profit possibilities of the
stock. The position of the Sun in any stock's chart is the most
important planetary position to be considered and for this reason
the Sun is placed on the ascendant of the stock's chart and the
other planets placed in relation to it. This is logical, for it is a
well known fact that the organization and management of a
company determine its financial success. I have noticed that when
the Sun ts badly aspected at the time of incorporation, the Com-
pany has to merge later with another company or has to go out
of business completely. Aspects to the Sun are of paramount
importance, both at the time of incorporation and at a later date
by transit of the major planets to the Sun.

The Moon { >) stands for the public; the buying public and
the atittude of the people toward the company or to its products.
Aspects to the Moon are important and second only to the Sun.
Regardless of how good a concern is, there must be a demand
for the goods produced and a buying public. A company which
is incorporated at a time when the Moon is in favorable aspect
to the Sun lasts a long time and is usually a most successful
organization. In the case of U. S. Steel we find that the Moon is
placed in a favorable sextile (60 degree) aspect to the Sun.
This is an excellent sign for continuation of this company for

[117]

 

--- Page 69 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

many years to come. It has already been in existence thirty-seven
years. This is a long time in view of the fact that many com-
panies which were listed on the New York Stock Exchange only
three years ago have long been out of existence. Companies are
organized and go out of business over night!

Jupiter (2f) stands for the money-making possibilities of a
Company. It shows the money behind 2 company and its
chances for expansion. In the case of U. §. Steel, Jupiter is in
6 degrees Capricorn in favorable sextile (60 degree) aspect with
the Sun (Company) and io very favorable trine aspect (120 de-
grees) with the Moon (Public). It is therefore, easy to surmise
that U. S. Steel would make money and also would be a very
popular stock with the trading public.

Saturn () stands for the limitations of the Company and
usually when Saturn is placed in unfavorable aspect to the Sun
or Moon at the time of incorporation, the Company has many
vicissitudes in a financial way. Whenever Saturn by transit moves
in unfavorable aspect to the Sun, and in a lesser degree to the
Moon, it usually is a bad year for a company. Therefore, make
it a rale never to invest in a stock when Saturn by transit is unfa-
vorably aspecting the Sin or Moon in a chart. You will find
that you will tie up your money or suffer loss by having the
stock go down on you.

Mars ( 4} governs the activity of a stock. Whenever Mars at
the time of incorporation or by transit strongly aspects the Sun,
Moon, Jupiter, or its own place at the time of incorporation, the
stock will fluctuate strongly while under the stimuli of Mars.
Other aspects in force at the time of the Mars transit determine
whether the stock will move up or down or just back-and-fill for
the time being. Always look to see whether a stock is tem-
porarily under a Mars aspect, if it starts moving in a vety active
manner. Unless there are other testimonies present which indi-
cate that the stock is on an up trend, do not msh and buy a stock
because it suddenly becomes active. Aspects from Mats pass
very quickly and you may find your funds later or in a short time
tied up in an inactive stock. In the case of U. S. Steel, our exam-

[118 J

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ple stock, Mars is in favorable trine aspect to Jupiter and the
Moon. It is in an opposition aspect to the Sun. This would be
unfavorable, if Mars were not in favorable aspect to Jupiter and
the Moon, which in turn are in favorable aspect to the Sun, as
well as being in favorable aspect to each other! This is a very
strong favorable planetary tie-up and not only shows an active
stock, but an extremely strong Company with enlarged powers.

Another noticeable fact about U. S. Steel should be brought out
here. The Steel stocks as a Group come under the rulership of
the Earth and Water signs, that is, the signs of Taurus, Virgo,
Capricorn, Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces, and U. 5. Steel certainly
bears out this fact with every important planet in Earth and Water
signs. The Sun is in Pisces, a Water sign, and the Moon, Jupiter,
Mars, and Saturn are in Earth signs. Stability is certainly shown
here for this Company with so many planets in Earthy signs.

It is well to know what the various sign rulerships of the main
Groups of stocks on the New York Stock Exchange are. When-
ever the Sun or other major planets pass through these signs,
stocks which fall under these Groups are stimulated to activity.
This accounts for the seasonal popularity of certain Groups of
stocks which can be accounted for in no other way. Often it is
possible to trade in a certain Group of stocks for a month and
make money when other Groups are unaccentuated. For instance,
the Aviation Group comes under the rulership mainly of the
Fire signs, that is, Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius, with Sagittarius
patticularly strong. December, and usually the latter part of
November, is a good time to trade in Aviation stocks for they
are nearly always active at this time. During December, 1935,
1936, and 1937, the Aircraft issues were strong and active. This
was particularly so in 1935 when Jupiter, the planet of expansion,
moved into Sagittarius for a year's stay. It is mteresting to note
in connection with the strong affinity between Aviation stocks
and the sign Sagittarius that in the natural order of the signs of
the zodiac Sagittarius rules the ninth house which has to do with
distant places, long trips, and travelling.

The Chemical stocks come under the rulership of the Fire

{ 119 }

 

 

--- Page 70 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

signs; and as a mile, so do many of the Railroad stocks.

The Oil stocks come mainly under the influence of the Ait
signs, particularly the sign of Libra. The other two Air signs
are Gemini and Aquarius.

Utilities come under a combination of Water and Earth signs.
July is often a good month for Utilities and Steel and so is Janu-
ary, the latter part of February and November. These months
do not always hold good due to the fact that there may be present
other major planets which counteract this seasonal stimulation;
however, it is well to know when certain groups will be active.
Oils are usually good in September and October of each year or
at least very active.

In studying the chart of a stock, one other planetary factor
must be taken into account and that is the planet which rules the
sign the Sun is placed in or in other words the sign under which
the stock 1s incorporated. In the case of U. S. Steel, the Sun is
in Pisces, and the ruler of Pisces is Neptune, which in this Com-
pany's chart is placed in 26 degrees Gemini. Aspects to Neptune
will often give a clue to the change in trend of this stock when
other testimonies are lacking. Therefore, before making any
final judgment on what a stock will or will not do in the future,
always take into consideration any aspects to the stack’s planetary
fuler. This is always the planet which miles the sign in which
the Sun is placed. (For a4 list of the twelve signs and their
planetary rulers see Chapter Ul)

The following transits influence a stock’s future trend: the
trend will be upward if Jupiter, and Uranus are placed in a favor-
able aspect to the Sun, that is forming angles of 0, 60, and 120
degrees.

The trend will be downward if Saturn or Uranus are placed in
unfavorable aspect to the Sun or Moon in the Company's chart.
That is, forming angles of 90 degrees, 180, 135, and in the case
of Saturn, in 0 degrees or conjunction aspect. Do not invest in a
stock which is under an unfavorable aspect to the Sun or Moon.
Always invest in a stock which is coming under a favorable
aspect from Jupiter or Uranus singly or when both planets are

f 120 }

 

McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

placed in favorable aspect to each other and are aspecting the
Sun or Moon of a Company. If the major planets Saturn and
Uranus are in favorable aspect to each other and they aspect the
Sun or Moon in a Company's chart, this is also a good time to
invest in a stock, If Saturn and Dranus are in unfavorable aspect
to each other as transits and one of the planets, or both, as

the Sun and Moon in a Company's chart, the tread will be decid-
edly downward and to invest in it would bring financial loss,

In the case of U. §. Steel, Saturn moved into Pisces in March,
1935, and this was an unfavorable influence, but at the same time
the major planet Uranus formed a favorable sextile aspect with
transiting Saturn and at the same time was in conjunction with
the Moon in the chart of U. S. Steel and in a very favorable trine
aspect to Jupiter and Mars in the chart besides being in favorable
aspect to the Sun. In the face of such testimony, even a rank
amateur in judgment could not conclude anything else but the
fact that U. S. Steel was going up and that it was an excellent
investment possibility. This 1s all the more true in view of the
fact that a favorable aspect between Saturn and Uranus usually
marks an upturn in the stock market. Anyone who could have
studied the possibilities ahead for U. S. Steel in this simple
manner would have been able to make a fortune. However, how
was a trader to know how long this upturn would last? In view
of the fact that U. S. Steel moves with the stock market generally,
it was a safe estimate that this stock would go up as long as the
stock market pointed upward, which would be relatively the time
during which Saturn and Uranus were in favorable aspect. This
was from 1935-1937. In March, 1935, this stock was as low as
$30.00 per share; in March, 1937, it had risen to between
$125.00 to $130.00 per share. This stock dropped to $40.00
by the spring of 1938. It is again at a buying level, Why?

During 1939, Jupiter will be in the sign of Pisces, and at the
same time will go over the mid-heaven of the New York Stock
Exchange. It is logical to conclude that this stock is going to
rise and therefore, it is a good investment proposition for 1939,
since it is ruled by Pisces.

r 1214

 

--- Page 71 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

In Chapter VI of this book, the planetary positions are given
for every month (at the time of the New Moon) from 1938
until 1950. ‘This enables a trader to know the planetary transits
to a stock for almost 12 years in advance. During 1939, Jupiter
will pass through Pisces, the sign under which U. S. Steel is incor-
porated and this stock should rise during the coming year. Dur-
ing 1939, the transiting Uranus will be in favorable aspect to
Jupiter ducing the spring months especially and this is added
planetary strength indicating that this stock will go up.

All stocks are studied in the same manner as U. S. Steel. It is
always necessary to set up a chart as has been done in the case of
this stock and study the planetaty relationships and aspects of the
Company involved. Then in order to know whether the stock is
good for investment purposes for the future, it is necessaty to
study its Node positions in order to ascertain whether the stock
would work with the general trend of the stock market. The
next and fast step is to determine the planetary aspects for any
future year which are formed by the transiting planets to the
Sun and Moon in the chart of the stock. With a little practice,
it becomes a simple matter to know whether a stock would be a
wise investment at any particular time. Naturelly, as with any
other subject, the more familiar you become with this method
of studying a stock’s investment possibilities the more accurate
you become in your analysis of that stock.

As an example of a stock which offered tremendous possibili-
ties for profit within a space of five years and which probably
nobody invested in, it is interesting to study the chart of Spiegel,
Inc. (SMS), formerly Spiegel-May-Stern Co. This stock was
incorporated April 28, 1928, in Delaware. Its planetary posi-
tions are given in Chapter V, as follows:

Sun 7 degrees Taurus; Moon 27 degrees Leo; Neptune 26
degrees Leo, Retrograde; Uranus 5 degrees Aries; Saturn 8
degrees Sagittarius, Retrograde, Jupiter 21 degrees Aries; Venus
20 degtees Aries; Mercury 2 degrees Taurus; the Moon's North
Node 11 degrees Gemint.

The chart of this company is set up in exactly the same manner

F122}

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

 

EXAMPLE Ii—SPIEGEL, INC. (FORMERLY SPIEGEL, MAY,
STERN). CHART REVEALING TREMENDOUS MONEY-MAKING
POSSIBILITIES.

[ 123}

 

--- Page 72 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

as the chart of U. S. Steel. The Sun is placed on the ascendant
with its degree, that is 7 degrees Taurus. The remaining eleven
houses have the remaining eleven signs of the zodiac placed
around the chart in their proper order with 8 degrees equally
placed on the eleven house cusps. The planets are then put in
their proper houses, depending, of course, for their positions on
the degree of the sign which they carry. For a copy of this chart
correctly set up see “Exam pie IT”.

In May, 1932, the stock of Spiegel, May, Stern Co. sold for
6214c per share. For the sum of $500.00, 800 shares of SMS
could have been bought. By December, 1936, the stock's value
had climbed to $114.50 per share. Jf this stock had been pur-
chased in May, 1932, for 6214¢ per share and 800 shares had
been bought, these 800 shares would have been worth $91,600.00!
In five years time another opportunity for sound investment had
passed and probably there are very few people who took advan-
tage of it.

What in this company’s chart showed that it would have such

phenomenal money-making possibilities? A study of this com-

pany's chart reveals much.

It is a well known fact, in this method of studying a stock's
future, that a chart which shows the Sun, which is symbolic of
the Company, under unfavorable aspects at the time of the incor-
poration has very little chance of making money. The same
tule holds true for the Moon in a lesser degree. The Moon is
symbolic of the Public; the public buying interest and the aiti-
tude of the masses toward the product for sale. If the Moon is
badly aspected at the time of incorporation, the Company works
under a heavy handicap and more often than not eventually has
to go out of business.

In the Chart of Spiegel, Inc. the Sun (Company) is in favor-
able semi-sextile aspect with the epoch-making planet Uranus.
Mercury is in conjunction with the Sun giving added trading
strength. Uranus is also in favorable serni-sextile aspect to Mer-
cury. The Moon (Public) is in conjunction with Neptune and
in very favorable trine aspect to both Venus and Jupiter (fnan-

[124]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

cial possibilities), Veous and Jupiter are in conjunction with each
other in Aries. The limitations of the Company are shown by
Saturn's position and aspects. This planet in the chart of SMS
is in very favorable trine aspect to Jupiter (money-making possi-
bilities of the Company). Mars ruling the activity of the stock
is in favorable semi-sextile aspect to Jupiter and Venus. it is in
unfavorable square aspect to Saturn, but since Saturn is trine
Jupiter (financial gain), this aspect between Mars and Saturn
is not as forceful as it otherwise would be, if both planets were
not favorably aspecting the money-making planet Jupiter.

Therefore, it is easy to conclude that this stock was a good
investment. ‘The Sun, Moon, Jupiter, and even restrictive Satur
in favorable aspect at the time of incorporation. After this stock
was incorporated, it did not immediately go up. There were no
major transiting aspects present to bring out the latent possibilities
of the good chart, In 1932, the epoch-making Uranus, which
was favorably aspecting the Sun (Company) at the time of incor-
poration, moved into conjunction with Jupiter and Venus in
Aries, forming at the same time a very favorable trine aspect
with the Moon (Public) and Neptune in Leo. This started the
upturn which continued upward sharply from 1934 through 1936
when Uranus moved through the first 10 degrees of Taurus and
over the Sun's degree of 7 Taurus.

To know whether this stock is a good buy for the future, or
whether ary stock is a good investment for the tuture, it is neces-
saty to study the transits of the major planets which will aspect
the Sun, Moon, and Jupiter at that time. In the case of this
stock (SMS), transiting Jupiter will be in favorable sextile aspect
during the first two months of 1939. This is due to the fact that
Jupiter will be in Pisces at this time and passing through the
first ten degrees or decanate of Pisces. Pisces forms 2 sextile
aspect with the sign Taurus and planets passing through the first
10 degrees of Pisces would be in favorable sextile aspect to the
Sun in this company’s chart, which is in 7 degrees Taurus. This is
favorable for gains. During the summer months of 1939, Jupiter
will move into Aries and will pass through the first 10 degrees

{125 ]

 

--- Page 73 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

of the sign. In this position transiting Jupiter will form a con-
junction aspect with Uranus and a semi-sextile aspect with the
Sun. This is a favorable indication.

During all of 1939 Saturn will be passing through the third
decanate (or 20 to 30 degrees) Aries. In this position, transiting
Saturn will exert a conservative influence over the financial gains
of this company. Satum’s influence is always to limit, curb, and
restrain unless it is under very favorable aspects from transiting
Uranus at the same time. Saturn passing through the last 10
degrees of Aries forms a conjunction aspect with Jupiter, Venus,
and a trine aspect with the Moon and Neptune.

During 1940, both Jupiter and Saturn will transit the sign of
Taurus and in this position will pass over the Sun of this Com-
pany. This is a mixed indication for the gains of this Company,
but in view of the fact that the Sun was well aspected at the time
of incorporation, this stock should go upward.

Every chart, like every individual, has similar characteristics,
but always there will be present a new set of conditions not pres-
ent in the other. It takes time and practice to become adept in
analysing the charts of stocks, but it is interesting, and very
worthwhile, since it helps you to obtain financial independence
through investment of a sound and practical nature. The more
time you give to this subject the more money you will be able
to make. There is no method except the theory propounded in
this book which offers such a quick and accurate analysis of indi-
vidual stocks for the average man in the street who has a small
capital to invest.

The positions of the transiting planets for every month during
the next twelve years is given in the Ephemeris in Chapter VI.
The incorporation date of every important stock listed on the
New York Stock Exchange (as of July 1, 1938), with its planetary
positions for that date, are given in Chapter V. Charts for each
and every one of the stocks listed are set up as the three charts
for the three stocks used as examples in this chapter. They are
analysed in the same way. The first step, after setting up the
chart correctly, is to study out the planetary aspects present in

[126 }

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

the chart, particularly those to the Sun, Moon, and Jupiter. This
gives the clue to the long life of the company; its relationship
with the consuming public; and its money-making possibilities.
The position and aspects to Saturn show the setbacks financially
and otherwise which the company is apt to experience. Mars
shows its strength and activity on the market.

The second step is to refer to the Ephemeris in Chapter VI and
see when the major planets Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter, and Neptune
aspect important planetary positions in the chart. This will give
you the clue to when a big up or down movement will take
place in the stock, When you ate studying a stock and you find
it is under no major planetary aspects for that period, then you
are safe in judging that it will be in a sideways movement until
it comes under major planetary aspects and that to tie-up money
in the stock will bring you little or no financial returns. Invest
in stocks which you know are coming under favorable planetary
aspects only. Spiegel, Inc. (SMS) the stock used for “Example
I?” is a good example of a stock which was coming under favor-
able aspects for several years to come and whose favorable indica-
tions for the future were clearly pointed out by its chart several
yeats in advance.

If you have your capital invested in a stock whose chart clearly
shows that it is coming under unfavorable transiting aspects, the
thing to do is to find a chart of a stock which is coming under
favorable aspects and buy in the stock favorably aspected. There
is no virtue in holding a stock which is not making money
for you.

It is interesting to study the chart of Sears Roebuck Co. (8)
which was incorporated June 16, 1906, in New York. The
planetaty positions for this stock, which are given in Chapter V,
ate as follows: The Sun 24 degrees Gemini; the Moon 24 degrees
Aries; Neptune 9 degrees Cancer; Uranus 7 degrees Capricorn;
Saturn 14 degrees Pisces; Jupiter 20 degrees Gemini; Mars 3
degrees Cancer; Venus 25 degrees Cancer; Mercury 3 degrees
Cancer. The Moon’s North Node 14 degrees Leo. This chart
illustrates the enormous merchandising concern it tepresents.

F127 ]

 

 

--- Page 74 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

 

EXAMPLE li —SEARS ROEBUCK COMPANY CHART WHICH
SHOWS UNUSUAL PERMANENCY FACTORS.

[ 128}

 

McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

That this company would be in existence a long time is shown by
the fact that the Sun (Company) is in a very favorable sextile
(60 degree) aspect with the Moon (Public) besides being in
conjunction with the money-making planet Jupiter. Jupiter
(financial possibilities) was in favorable sextile aspect with the
Moon (Public). Venus, which has to do with clothes, cosmetics,
or any items which have to do with women and children, was in
semi-sextile aspect to both the Sun and Jupiter. Mars, which
has to do with the activity of the company and stock, and the
planet which sometimes shows the application of the company’s
interests, is in conjunction with Mercury (the mail) and Neptune
(selling). Neptune also represents dealings which never actually
contact a person face to face. Then again the stgn of Cancer
rules the home, and everything which has to do with the home,
and there are four planets out of the nine in that sign. It would
be easy to judge that this company has something to do with
merchandise that is in some way connected with the home. It
often happens that you can judge the kind of business a company
is in by studying the planetary positions in force at the time it
was incorporated. Sears Roebuck Co. is an excellent stock to
study from its chart as it reveals much about the company which
otherwise would never be known from a set of statistics concem-
ing the company and its assets.

The chart of Sears Roebuck Co. is set up in the same way as
the two other stocks used as examples in this chapter. The Sun
in 24 degrees Gemini is placed on the ascendant. The remaining
eleven signs follow in consecutive order and carry 25 degrees, ex-
cept the seventh sign of Sagittarius, which carries the 24th degree.
(The sign which falls on the seventh house opposite the ascendant
always carries the same degree as the ascendant or first house).
The planets are then placed around the chart in their proper
places. A copy of the chart correctly set up accompanies this
Chapter and is marked “Example HI’. It would be a good idea,
if you are not familiar with the setting up of charts to practice
on setting up the three example charts in this Chapter to familiar-
ize yourself with the process.

[129]

 

--- Page 75 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

By studying the major transits affecting this stock for investment
purpose, for 1938, we see that Jupiter is forming a very favorable
trine aspect during this year, but that Neptune is placed in an
unfavorable square aspect at the same time. This configuration
represents two forces which are pulling against each other. Gains
should predominate, but trading caution is advised before invest-
ing. During 1939, both Jupiter and Neptune will be unfavorably
placed to the Sun and Jupiter in this company’s stock. Careful
study of the chart and actual movements of Sears Roebuck should
be studied before buying during 1939.

It often happens that transiting Mars, which moves very quickly
through the zodiac, aspects Jupiter or Mars, in a stock's chart and
during the transit the stock becomes very active. Do not be misled
by this sudden activity of a stock, for as soon as the Mars aspect
passes, the stock is apt to resume its former position or else, if
it is not aspected by any major planets at the time, to then lapse
into inactivity.

The forecasts for the “example stocks” are intended to be used
as guides on how to forecast future trends of a stock, They are
not intended to be buying and selling information. The only way
to learn how to forecast the future trends of stocks, according to
this method, is to work out examples in real life. We learn by
actually doing a thing—not by reading pages of theory. The
analyses of the three stocks are also intended for study purposes
only. The three stocks chosen were picked for no particular finan-
cial reason, but were chosen at random from the list in Chapter V,
merely, because they would illustrate the points brought out in
this Chapter on how to forecast the trends of individual stocks.

When applying the transits to the chart of the stocks, if the
reader is not familiar with aspects, favorable and unfavorable, he
should study Chapter III and also “ASPECTS” in the Glossary of
Chapter VI. It is absolutely necessary to be familiar with the
angular relationships existing between the planets at the time a
company was incorporated, and also know how to tell at a glance
from the Ephemeris whether a planet is forming an aspect of
importance to the Sun, Moon, Jupiter and Saturn in a company's

[ 130 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

chart, at any given time. It is also necessary for the reader to
know the order of the signs of the zodiac in order to be able to
place them correctly around the chart.

Blank charts for erecting the charts of stocks may be quickly
drawn off on a blank sheet of paper from the one’s shown in
this book or a prepated pad may be bought at an astrological
bookstore. Any one can learn this method of forecasting the
trend of stocks in a short time, if he is willing to learn a few
simple principles and apply them.

[ 131}

 

--- Page 76 ---
Chapter V

Date and Place of Incorporation of
Stocks Lasted on
The New York Stock Exchange

<< A”

ABRAHAM AND STRAUSS (AST). Inc. Jan. 19, 1920. Sun
28 degrees Capricorn; Moon 8 degrees Capricorn; Neptune 10
degrees Leo (retrograde) ; Uranus 29 degrees Aquarius; Saturn
11 degrees Virgo (retrograde) ; Jupiter 15 degrees Leo (retro-
gtade); Mars 25 degrees Libra; Venus 17 degrees Sagittarius;
Mercury 17 degrees Capricorn; the North Node 21 degrees
Scorpio.

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. (AE). Incorporated July 1, 1854. Sun
9 degrees Cancer; Moon 15 degrees Virgo; Neptune 15 degrees
Pisces; Uranus 15 degrees Taurus; Saturn 9 degrees Gemini; Jupi-
ter 24 degrees Capricorn; Mars 25 degrees Virgo; Venus 29
degrees Taurus; Mercury 5 degrees Leo; the Moon’s North Node
29 degrees Taurus.

ADDRESSOGRAPH MULTIGRAPH (AIN). Incorporated
May 6, 1931 in Delaware.

ADVANCE RUMELY CO. (RX). Reorganized February
9, 1931, in Indiana.

AFFILIATED PRODUCTS (AFP). Inc. June 26, 1930 in
Delaware.

AIR REDUCTION CO. {ADN). incorporated November
26, 1915 in New York.

AIRWAY ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE (AWY). Incorpo-
rated July 23, 1920. Sun 0 degrees Leo; Moon 8 degrees Scorpio;
Neptune 10 degrees Leo; Uranus 4 degrees Pisces Retrograde;

F132)

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Saturn 9 degrees Virgo; Jupiter 22 degrees Leo; Mars 5 degrees
Scorpio; Venus 5 degrees Leo; Mercuty 6 degrees Leo; the
Moon's North Node in the chart of this company is in 11 degrees
of Scorpio.

ALASKA JUNEAU GOLD MINING CO. (AJ). Incorpo-
rated February 17, 1897 in West Virginia.

ALBANY AND SUSQUEHANNA RAILROAD (AQS). In-
corporated April 19, 1851 in New York,

ALLEGHANY CORPORATION (Y). Incorporated January
26, 1929 in Maryland.

ALLEGHANY STEEL CO. (AGL). Incorporated May 6,
1929 in Pennsylvania.

ALLIED CHEMICAL AND DYE (ACD). Incorporated De-
cember 17, 1920 in New York.

ALLIS-CHALMERS MANUFACTURING CO. (AH). In-
corporated March 15, 1913 in Delaware.

ALPHA PORTLAND CEMENT (AHP). Incorporated Janu-
ary 21, 1910 in New York.

AMALGAMATED LEATHER (ALR). Incorporated March
4, 1910 in Delaware.

AMERADA CORPORATION (ARC). Incorporated February
7, 1920 in Delaware.

AMERICAN AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL (DELA-
WARE). (AHD). Incorporated December 8, 1913 in Delaware.

AMERICAN BANK NOTE (ABN). Incorporated Febmary
19, 1906 in New York.

AMERICAN BRAKE SHOE (ABK). Incorporated October
10, 1910 in Delaware.

AMERICAN CAN (AC). Incorporated March 19, 1901 in
New Jetsey.

AMERICAN CAR AND FOUNDRY (AF). Incorporated
February 20, 1899 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN CHICLE (ACJ). Incorporated June 2, 1899 in
New Jersey.

AMERICAN COLORTYPE (AOY). Incorporated February
21, 1902 in New Jersey.

{ 133 }

 

--- Page 77 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

AMERICAN COMMERCIAL ALCOHOL (ACF). Incor-
porated April 19, 1928 in Maryland.

AMERICAN CRYSTAL SUGAR (ABS). Incorporated
March 24, 1899 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN ENCAUSTIC TILING (AEN). Incorporated
February 24, 1936 in New York.

AMERICAN EUROPEAN (AMU). Incorporated October
19, 1925 in Delaware.

AMERICAN EXPRESS (AMX). Organized November 25,
1868 under New York Laws—not incorporated.

AMERICAN AND FOREIGN POWER (AFW).  Incorpo-
rated December 19, 1923, in Maine.

AMERICAN HAWAIIAN STEAMSHIP CO, (AHS). In-
corporated May 18, 1899 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN HIDE AND LEATHER (HI). Incorporated
May 3, 1899 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS (HPT). Iocorporated Feb-
tuaty 4, 1926 in Delaware.

AMERICAN ICE (55). Incorporated March 11, 1889 in New
Jersey.
AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL (AL). Incorporated No-
vember 23, 1915 in New York.

AMERICAN LOCOMOTIVE (ALO). Incorporated June 10,
1901 in New York,

AMERICAN MACHINERY AND FOUNDRY (AFX). In-
corporated March 26, 1900 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN MACHINERY AND METALS (AME). In-
corporated March 27, 1930 in Delaware.

AMERICAN METAL (AMM). Incorporated June 17, 1887
in New York.

AMERICAN NEWS (NEW YORK CORPORATION)
(ANC). Incorporated May 24, 1918 in New York.

AMERICAN POWER AND LIGHT (AOW). Incorporated
September 20, 1909 in Maine.

AMERICAN RADIATOR AND STANDARD SANITARY
CO. (ADT). Incorporated March 26, 1929 in Delaware,

[ 134]

 

McWhirter Theory of Steck Market Forecasting

AMERICAN ROLLING MILL (AGM). Incorporated June
29, 1917 in Ohto.

AMERICAN SAFETY RAZOR (ARZ). Incorporated July
22, 1919 in Virginia.

AMERICAN SEATING (AMZ). Incorporated June 21, 1926
in New Jersey.

AMERICAN SHIPBUILDING (ASU). Incorporated March
16, 1899 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN SMELTING AND REFINING (AR). Incor-
porated April 4, 1899 in New fersey.

AMERICAN SNUFF CO. (SNU). Incorporated March 12,
1900 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES (FJ). Incorporated June
26, 1902 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN STORES (ASC). Incorporated March 29, 1917
in Delaware.

AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING (ASR). Incorporated Jan-
uary 10, 1891 in New Jersey.

AMERICAN SUMATRA TOBACCO (AMS). Incorporated
Febmary 12, 1910 in Georgia.

AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH CO. (T).
Incorporated March 3, 1885 in New York.

AMERICAN WATER WORKS AND ELECTRIC CO.
(AWW). Incorporated June 16, 1927 in Delaware.

AMERICAN WOOLEN (WY). Incorporated March 29,
1899 in New Jersey. However, in this case records indicate that
this stock was reincorporated on February 15, 1916 in Massa-
chusetts.

AMERICAN ZINC LEAD AND SMELTING (ZA). Incor-
porated January 26, 1899 tn Maine.

ANACONDA COPPER MINING CO. (C). Incorporated
June 18, 1895 in Montana.

ANACONDA WIRE AND COPPER (AWC). Incorporated
February 20, 1929 in Delaware.

ANCHOR CAP CORPORATION (ARH). Incorporated Sep-
tember 13, 1928 in Delaware.

[135 }

 

--- Page 78 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ANDES COPPER MINING CO. (ADE). Incorporated Janu-
ary 20, 1916 in Delaware.

A. P. W. PAPER (ABP). Incorporated July 19, 1877 in New
York.

ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO. (ADD}. Incorporated
May 2, 1923 in Delaware.

ARMOUR-(DELAWARE) PFD. (AMD). Incorporated De-
cember 27, 1922 in Delaware.

ARMOUR AND CO. (AM). Incorporated April 7, 1900 in
IHinois.

ARMSTRONG CORP (ACK). Incorporated December 30,
1891 in Pennsyivania.

ARNOLD CONSTABLE (ACT). Incorporated September 19,
1925 in Delaware.

ARTLOOM CORPORATION (ARR). Incorporated Febru-
ary 24, 1925 in Pennsylvania.

ASSOCIATED DRY GOODS (DG). Incorporated May 24,
1916 in Virginia.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE RY. (A). Incor-
porated December 12, 1895 in Kansas.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE R. R. (AX). Incorporated March
14, 1836 in Virginia, Name to present title April 23, 1900.

ATLANTIC GULF AND WEST INDIES STEAMSHIP CO.
(AG). Incorporated November 25, 1908 in Maine.

ATLANTIC REFINING (AFI). Incorporated April 29, 1870
in Pennsyivania.

ATLAS POWDER CO. (APW). Incorporated October 18,
1912 in Delaware.

ATLAS TACK CORPORATION (AKO). Incorporated Jan-
uaty 30, 1920 in New York.

AUBURN AUTOMOBILE (AAC). Incorporated June 25,
1919 in Indiana.

AUSTIN NICHOLS AND CO. (ANO). Incorporated Au-
gust 23, 1919 in Virginia.

AVIATION CORPORATION OF DELAWARE (AVC).
Incorporated March 1, 1929 in Delaware.

[ 136 J

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

*R”

BALDWIN LOCOMOTIVE WORKS (B). Incorporated
June 7, 1911 in Pennsylvania, Sun 15 degrees Gemini; Moon 27
degrees Libra; Neptune 19 degrees Cancer; Uranus 28 degrees
Capricorn Retrograde; Saturn 14 degrees Taurus; Jupiter 5 degrees
Scorpio Retrograde; Mars 3 degrees Aries; Venus 28 degrees
Cancer; Mercury 22 degrees Taurus; the Moon’s North Node 8
degrees Taurus.

BANGOR AND AROOSTOOK R. R. (BNK). Incorporated
February 13, 1891 in Maine.

BARBER ASPHALT CO., INC. (AS). Incorporated May 19,
1903 in New Jersey.

BARKER BROTHERS (BKR). Incorporated March 15, 1928
in Maryland.

BARNSDALL OIL CO. (BDL). Incorporated November 13,
1916 in Delaware.

BAYUK CIGAR (BY). Incorporated May 21, 1920 in Mary-
land.

BEATRICE CREAMERY (BR}. Incorporated November 20,
1924 in Delaware.

BEECH CREEK R. R. (BCH). Incorporated May 11, 1898
in Pennsylvania.

BEECH-NUT PACKING (BNU). Incorporated December
29, 1899 in New York.

BELDING HEMINGWAY (BV). Incorporated March 2,
1926 in Connecticut.

BELGIAN N. RY. (BLW). Incorporated July 23, 1926 under
Belgian Laws. —

BENDIX AVIATION (BEX). Incorporated April 13, 1929
in Delaware.

BENEFICIAL INDUSTRIAL LOAN (BNL). Incorporated
December 7, 1936 in Delaware.

BEST AND CO. (BST). Incorporated July 29, 1924 in New
York.

BETHLEHEM STEEL (BS). Incorporated December 10,
1904 in New Jersey.

{ 137 }

 

--- Page 79 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

BIGELOW SANFORD (BGS). Incorporated July 30, 1904
in Massachusetts.

BLAW KNOX CO. (BKX). Incorporated March 12, 1906
in New Jersey.

BLOOMINGDALE BROS. (BBL). Incorporated August 2,
1917 in New York.

BLUMENTHAL CO. (SBM). Incorporated June 30, 1899 in
New York.

BLACK AND DECKER (BDK)}. Incorporated September 10,
1910 in Maryland.

BOEING AIRPLANE CO. (BOE). Incorporated July 19,
1934 in Delaware.

BOHN ALUMINUM AND BRASS (BHL). Incorporated
October 24, 1924 in Michigan.

BOND STORES, INC. (BND). Incorporated March 13, 1937
in Maryland.

BORDEN COMPANY (BDO). Incorporated April 24, 1899
in New Jersey.

BORG WARNER CORPORATION (BOR). Incorporated
May 9, 1928 in Illinots.

BOWER ROLLER BEARING CO. (BRB). Incorporated
June 23, 1910 in Michigan.

BRIDGEPORT BRASS (BRI). Incorporated April 7, 1882 in
Connecticat.

BRIGGS MANUFACTURING (BGJ). Incorporated Novem-
ber 29, 1909 in Michigan.

BRIGGS AND STRATTON (BGG). Incorporated July 1,
1924 in Delaware.

BRISTOL MYERS (BM). Incorporated August 11, 1933 in
Delaware.

BROOKLYN AND QUEENS TRANSIT CO. (BQT). In-
corporated July 1, 1929 in New York.

BROOKLYN MANHATTAN TRANSIT CO. (BMT). In-
corporated May 24, 1923 in New York.

BROOKLYN UNION GAS (BU). Incorporated September
7, 1895 in New York.

[ 138 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

BROWN SHOE CO. (BW). Incorporated January 2, 1913
in New York.

BRUNSWICK, BALKE-COLLENDER (BCC). Incorporated
December 31, 1907 in Delaware.

BUCYRUS ERIE (BEY). Incorporated November 3, 1927 in
Delaware.

BUDD MANUFACTURING CO. (BDM). INTERNA-
TIONAL CORPORATION. Incorporated August 7, 1930 in
Delaware.

BUDD WHEEL CO. (BWC). Incorporated June 29, 1921 in
Pennsylvania.

BULLARD CO. (BUD). Incorporated September 6, 1894 in
Connecticut.

BURLINGTON MILLS CORPORATION (BUR). Incor-
porated February 15, 1937 in Delaware.

BURROUGHS ADDING MACHINE (BGH). Incorporated
January 16, 1905 in Michigan.

BUSH TERMINAL CO. (BH). Incorporated February 10,
1902 in New York.

BUSH TERMINAL BUILDING (BHB)}. Incorporated Janu-
aty 31, 1905 in New York.

BUTLER BROS. (BBR). Incorporated June 7, 1887 in HL.

BUTTE COPPER AND ZINC (BC). Incorporated November
22, 1904 in Maine.

A. M. BYERS (ABY). Incorporated July 9, 1903 in Penn-
sylvania.

BYRAN JACKSON CO. (BJC). Incorporated November 25,
1927 in Delaware.

“Cc”
CALIFORNIA PACKING CO. (CFF). Incorporated Octo-
ber 19, 1916 in New York.
CALLAHAN ZINC-LEAD (CIM). Incorporated June 12,
1912 in Arizona.
CALUMET AND HECLA (CAH). Incorporated September
1, 1923 in Michigan.

F 139 J

 

--- Page 80 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

CAMPBELL WYANT AND C. FOUNDRY (CWT). In-
corporated November 28, 1927 in Michigan.

CANADA DRY GINGER ALE (DGL). Incorporated June
1, 1925 in Delaware.

CANADA SOUTHERN RAILWAY (CSA). Incorporated
February 28, 1868 in Canada.

CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY (CP). Incorporated Feb-
ruary 16, 1881 in Canada.

CANNON MILLS (CAM). Incorporated July 6, 1928 in
North Carolina.

CAPITAL ADMINISTRATION “A” (CAD). Incorporated
October 18, 1928 in Maryland.

CAROLINA C AND O RAILWAY (CCL). Incorporated
January 26, 1905 in Virginia.

CARPENTER STEEL (CRS). Incorporated November 4,
1904 in New Jersey.

CASE (JI} COMPANY (CTM). Incorporated February 21,
1880 in Wisconsin.

CATERPILLAR TRACTOR (CTR). Incorporated April 15,
1925 in California.

CELANESE CORPORATION (CLZ}. Incorporated January
5, 1918 in Delaware.

CELOTEX CORPORATION (CLO). Incorporated July 16,
1930 in Delaware.

CENTRAL AGUIRRE ASSOCIATION (CEG). Incorporated
August 1, 1928 in Massachusetts.

CENTRAL FOUNDRY (CFD). Incorporated March 1, 1901
in New Jersey.

CENTRAL VIOLETA SUGAR. Incorporated September 3,
1936 in Cuba.

CENTURY RIBBON (CTY). Incorporated December 16,
1922 in New York.

CERRO DE PASCO COPPER CORPORATION (CDP). in-
cotporated October 26, 1915 in New York.

CERTAIN-TEED PRODUCTS (CRT). Incorporated January
30, 1917 in Maryland.

[ 140 J

Mc hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

CHAMPION PAPER AND FIBRE (CMP). Incorporated
November 3, 1893 in Ohio.

CHECKER CAB MANUFACTURING CO. (CHC). Incor-
porated February 19, 1923 in New Jersey.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY CO. (CO). In-
corporated July 1, 1878 in Virginia.

CHESAPEAKE CORPORATION (CHE). Incorporated May
7, 1927 in Maryland.

CHICAGO AND EASTERN ILLINOIS (CE). Incorporated
December 13, 1920 in Illinois.

CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY CO.
(NW). Incorporated June 7, 1859 in Iilinois.

CHICAGO GREAT WESTERN RAILROAD CO. (GW).
Incorporated August 11, 1909 in Illinois.

CHICAGO MAIL ORDER (CML). Incorporated December
15, 1902 in Hlinois.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE, ST. PAUL AND PACIFIC
R.R. CO. (ST). Incorporated March 31, 1927 in Wisconsin.

CHICAGO PENUMATIC TOOL (CGG). Incorporated De-
cember 28, 1901 in New Jersey.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
(RI). Incorporated June 2, 1880 in IIfinois.

CHICAGO YELLOW CAB (FXY). Incorporated October
27, 1916 in New York.

CHICKASHA COTTON OIL (CIK). Incorporated Novem-
ber 17, 1919 in Delaware.

CHILDS COMPANY (CDI). Incorporated December 6,
1923 in New York.

CHILE COPPER (CHL). Incorporated April 16, 1913 in
Delaware.

CHRYSLER CORPORATION (K)}. Incorporated June 6,
1925 in Delaware.

CINCINNATI, SANDUSKY AND CLEVELAND (CSC).
Incorporated January 11, 1868 in Ohio.
“One ICE AND FUEL (CFY). Incorporated July 17, 1894
in Ohio.

[ 141 }

 

--- Page 81 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

CITY INVESTING CO. (CNV). Incorporated December 2,
1904 in New York.

CITY STORES (CSS). Incorporated November 5, 1923 in
Delaware.

CLARK EQUIPMENT (CLQ). Incorporated December 27,
1916 in Michigan.

CLEVELAND GRAPH BRONZE (CLE). Incorporated
March 22, 1919 in Ohio.

CLEVELAND AND PITTSBURG. Incorporated April 18,
1853 in Pennsylvania.

CLUETT PEABODY (CLU). Incorporated February 4, 1913
in New York.

COCA COLA CO. (KO). Incorporated September 5, 1919 in
Delaware.

COCA COLA INTERNATIONAL (KOC). Incorporated
November 18, 1922 in Delaware.

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE-PEET (CPL). Incorporated July
25, 1923 in Delaware.

COLLINS AND AIKMAN CORPORATION (CK). In-
corporated July 8, 1927 in Delaware.

COLONIAL BEACON OIL (CBD). Incorporated May 20,
1919 in Massachusetts.

COLORADO FUEL AND IRON CO. (CF). Incorporated
October 21, 1892 in Colorado.

COLUMBIA AND SOUTHERN RAILWAY (CX). Incor-
porated July 28, 1909 in Maine.

COLUMBIA BROADCASTING SYSTEM (CBS). Incorpo-
rated January 27, 1927 in New Yosk.

COLUMBIA GAS AND ELECTRIC CORPORATION
(AG). Incorporated September 30, 1926 in Delaware.

COLUMBIA CARBON (CBN). Incorporated August 24,
1921 in Delaware.

COLUMBIA PICTURES (CPS). Incorporated January 10,
1924 in New York.

COMMERCIAL CREDIT (CMO). Incorporated May 31,
1912 in Delaware.

[ 142}

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

COMMERCIAL INVESTMENT TRUST CORPORATION
(CW). January 28, 1924 in Delaware.

COMMERCIAL SOLVENTS CORPORATION (CV). In-
corporated December 13, 1919 in Maryland.

COMMONWEALTH AND SOUTHERN CORPORATION
(CW). Incorporated May 23, 1929 in Delaware.

COMMONWEALTH EDISON (CWE). Incorporated Octo-
ber 17, 1913 in Delaware.

CONDE NAST PUBLISHING CO. (CDD). Incorporated
December 13, 1922 in New York.

CONGOLEUM-NAIRN, INCORPORATED (COG). Incor-
porated June 21, 1919 in New York.

CONGRESS CIGAR (CNG). Incorporated January 14, 1926
in Delaware.

CONN RAILWAY AND LIGHTING (CRW). Incorporated
July 2, 1895 in Connecticut.

CONSOLIDATED CIGAR (CGR). Incorporated May 14,
1919 in Delaware.

CONSOLIDATED EDISON (ED). Incorporated November
10, 1884 in New York.

CONSOLIDATED FILM INDUSTRY (CFM). Incorporated
Januaty 7, 1928 in Delaware.

CONSOLIDATED GAS AND ELECTRIC CO. NEW YORK
(G). Incorporated November 10, 1884 in New York.

CONSOLIDATED LAUNDRIES (LAU). Incorporated De-
cember 8, 1925 in Maryland.

CONSOLIDATED OIL CORPORATION (CNI). Inacorpo-
tated September 9, 1919 in New York.

CONSOLIDATED RAILROAD CUBA (CCU). Incorporated
July 28, 1924 under Cuban Laws.

CONSOLIDATED TEXTILE CORPORATION (CTX). In-
corporated September 27, 1919 in Delaware.

CONTAINER CORPORATION (CNR). Incorporated June
18, 1926 in Delaware.

CONTINENTAL BAKING CORPORATION (CI). Incor-
potated November 6, 1924 in Maryland.

[ 143 ]

 

--- Page 82 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

CONTINENTAL CAN CO., INCORPORATED (CH). In-
corporated January 17, 1913 in New York.

CONTINENTAL DIAMOND FIBRE (CDH). Incorporated
January 28, 1929 in Delaware.

CONTINENTAL INSURANCE (CIS). Incorporated Janu-
aty 7, 1853 in New York.

CONTINENTAL MOTOR (CMR). Incorporated January 2,
1917 in Virginia.

CONTINENTAL OIL CO. (CLL). Incorporated October 8,
1926 in Delaware.

CONTINENTAL STEEL (CT}. Incorporated June 21, 1927
in Indiana. |

CORN EXCHANGE BANK. Incorporated August 28, 1858
in Pennsylvania.

CORN PRODUCTS (CFG). Incorporated February 6, 1906
in New Jersey.

COTY INCORPORATED (COT). Incorporated December
22, 1922 in Delaware.

CRANE COMPANY (CCO). Old Company established in
1855 in Illinois. Name changed to present title January 23, 1932.

CREAM OF WHEAT (CWH). Incorporated March 18, 1929
in Delaware.

CROSLEY RADIO (CR). Incorporated June 30, 1919 in
Ohio.

CROWN CORK AND SEAL COMPANY, INCORPO-
RATED (CCK). Incorporated December 19, 1927 in New York.

CROWN ZELLERBACH (CEZ). Incorporated January 6,
1926 in Delaware.

CRUCIBLE STEEL (XA). Incorporated July 21, 1900 in
New York.

CUBA COMPANY (CUB). Iacorporated April 25, 1900 in
New York.

CUBA RAILROAD COMPANY (CBR). Incorporated March
6, 1907 in Cuba.

CUBAN AMERICAN SUGAR (CSU). Incorporated Sep-
tember 19, 1906 in New Jersey.

[ 144 }

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

CUDAHY PACKING (CUX). Incorporated October 7, 1915
in Maine.

CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY (CPC). Incorporated
July 6, 1914 in Pennsylvania.

CURTIS WRIGHT CORPORATION (CWZ). Incorporated
August 9, 1929 in Delaware.

CUSHMAN’S SONS (CHS). Incorporated November 25,
1914 in New York.

CUTLER HAMMER, INCORPORATED (CEH). Incorpo-
rated December 7, 1928 in Delaware.

“Ty”

DAVEGA STORES CORPORATION (DVG)__ Incorporated
June 12, 1928 in Delaware.

DAVISON CHEMICAL CORPORATION (DRC). Incor-
porated October 30, 1935 in Maryland.

DEERE AND COMPANY (DER). Organized Match 8, 1911
in [linois.

DEISEL-WEMER-GILBERT (DW). Incorporated January
23, 1929 in Ohio.

DELAWARE AND HUDSON (DH). Incorporated Decem-
ber 1, 1928 in New York.

DELAWARE, LACKAWANNA AND WESTERN RAIL-
ROAD COMPANY (DL). Old company established Apgil 7,
1832. Name changed to present title April 14, 1851 in Delaware.

DENVER AND RIO GRANDE WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY (DGR). Incorporated November 15, 1920 in Dela-
ware.

DETROIT EDISON (DTE). Incorporated January 17, 1903
in New York.

DETROIT AND MACKINAC (DET). Incorporated Decem-
ber 29, 1894 in Michigan.

DEVOE AND RAYNOLDS (DRS). Incorporated April 6,
1917 in New York.

DIAMOND MATCH (DN). Incorporated February 14, 1930
in Delaware.

[145 ]

 

--- Page 83 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

DIAMOND T MOTOR (DTM). Incorpotated November 22,
1915 in Indiana.

DISTILLERS C. P. SEAGRAMS (DCS). Incorporated March
2, 1928 in Canada.

DIXIE VORTEX (DV). Incorporated August 8, 1929 in
Delaware.

DOME MINES, LTD. (D). Incorporated July 7, 1923 in
Canada,

DOMINION STORES, LTD. (DOS). Incorporated October
3, 1919 in Canada.

DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT COMPANY, INCORPORATED
(DOU). Incorporated November 30, 1928 in Delaware.

DOW CHEMICAL (DOW). Incorporated May 18, 1897 in
DRESSER MANUFACTURING (DMY). Incorporated De-
cember 13, 1905 in Pennsylvania.

DULUTH SOUTH SHORE AND ATLANTIC RAILWAY
(DS). Incorporated March 9, 1887 in Michigan.

DUNHILL INTERNATIONAL (DHI). Incorporated Octo-
ber 27, 1923 in Delaware.

DUPLAN SILK CORPORATION (DPS). Incorporated
April 16, 1917 in Delaware.

DUPONT de NEMOURS (DD). Incorporated September 14,
1915 in Delaware.

DUQUESNE LIGHT (DQU). Incorporated August 5, 1903
in Pennsylvania.

hk”

EASTERN ROLLING MILL (ER). Incorporated June 26,
1919 in Maryland.

EASTMAN KODAK (EK). Incorporated October 24, 1901
in New Jersey.

EATON MANUFACTURING COMPANY (ENX). Incor-
porated August 28, 1916 in Ohio.

ELECTRIC STORAGE BATTERY (EG). Incorporated June
5, 1888 in New Jersey.

{ 146 }

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ELK HORN COAL (EH). Incorporated February 23, 1937
in West Virginia.

ENDICOTT JOHNSON (EJ). Incorporated April 1, 1919
in New York.

ENGINEERS PUBLIC SERVICE (EPU}. Incorporated June
23, 1925 in Delaware.

EITINGON SCHILD COMPANY (EGS). Incorporated June
30, 1914 in New York.

ELECTRIC & MUSICAL INDUSTRIES (EMI). Incorporated
April 20, 1931 in England.

ELECTRIC AUTO-LITE COMPANY (ELO). Incorporated
May 31, 1922 in Ohio.

ELECTRIC BOAT (ELB). Incorporated May 29, 1923 in
New

RLECTRIC POWER AND LIGHT (EL). Incorporated March
1t, 1925 in Maine.

EQUITABLE OFFICE BUILDING (EQ). Incorporated April
23, 1913 in New York.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY (E). Incorporated Novem-
ber 14, 1895 in New York.

ERIE AND PITTSBURGH RAILROAD (EP). Incorporated
April 1, 1838 in Pennsylvania.

EUREKA VACUUM CLEANER (EU). Incorporated Av-
gust 20, 1910 in Michigan.

EVANS PRODUCTS (EV). Incorporated December 26, 1923
in Delaware.

EX-CELL-O (EXL). Incorporated July 9, 1919 in Michigan.

EXCHANGE BUFFET (EXY). Incorporated July 26, 1913
in New York.

eR

FAIRBANKS COMPANY (FI). Incorporated June 11, 1891
in New Jersey.

FAIRBANKS MORSE AND COMPANY (FKM). __Incor-
porated June 30, 1891 in Iiltnois.

FEDERAL LIGHT AND TRACTION (FDT). Incorporated
April 13, 1910 in New York.

[ 147 }

 

--- Page 84 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

FEDERAL MINING AND SMELTING (FS). Incorporated
June 25, 1903 tn Delaware.

FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY (FMT). [acor-
porated February 14, 1910 in Michigan,

FEDERAL SCREW WORKS (FRW). Incorporated June
23, 1919 in Michigan.

FEDERAL WATER SERVICE CORPORATION (FWS). In-
corporated June 21, 1926 in Delaware.

FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES (FDS). Incorpor-
ated November 25, 1929 in Delaware.

FIDELITY-PHENIX FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
(FPX). Incorporated September 10, 1853 in New York.

FILENE’S (WM). SONS (FFL). Incorporated August 19,
1912 in Massachusetts.

FIRESTONE TIRE AND RUBBER COMPANY (FIR). In-
corporated March 4, 1910 in Ohio.

FIRST NATIONAL STORES, INCORPORATED (FST).
Incorporated August 25, 1917 in Massachusetts.

FLINTKOTE (FIK). Incorporated July 12, 1917 in Massa-
chusetts.

FLORENCE STOVE (FLS). Incorporated March 26, 1914 in
Massachusetts.

FLORSHEIM SHOE (FLO). Incorporated December 22,
1922 in ILinois,

FOLLANSBEE BROS. (FLZ). Incorporated September 6,
1894 tn Pennsylvania.

FOOD MACHINERY (FDM). Incorporated August 10,
1928 tin Delaware.

FOSTER WHEELER CORPORATION (FWC).  Incorpot-
ated February 1, 1910 in New York.

FRANCISCO SUGAR (FRA). Incorporated February 20,
1899 in New Jersey.

FRANKLIN SIMON (FIS). Incorporated September 13,
1924 in New York.

FREEPORT SULPHUR (FT). Incorporated September 30,
1930 in Delaware.

f 148 }

 

MeW hirter Theory of Steck Market Forecasting

3”

GABRIEL COMPANY (GRR). Incorporated April 23,
1925 in Ohio.

GAIR (ROB' T) INCORPORATED (GAI). Incorporated
April 6, 1932 in Delaware.

GAMEWELL COMPANY (GAC). Incorporated May 24,
1924 in Massachusetts.

GAR WOOD INDUSTRIES (GAR). Incorporated January
28, 1922 in Michigan.

GAYLORD CONTAINERS CORPORATION (GC). In-
corporated June 16, 1937 in Maryland.

GENERAL AMERICAN INVESTMENT (GAM). __Incor-
porated October 15, 1928 in Delaware.

GENERAL AMERICAN TRANSPORTATION (GMT). In-
corporated July 5, 1916 in New York.

GENERAL BAKING (GBG). Incorporated June 6, 1911 in
New York.

GENERAL BRONZE (GLZ). Incorporated November 21,
1927 in New York.

GENERAL CABLE (GGN). Incorporated April 15, 1902 in
New Jersey.

GENERAL CIGAR (GY). Incorporated April 28, 1906 in
New York.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY (GL). Incorporated
April 15, 1892 in New York.

GENERAL FOODS CORPORATION (GE). Incorporated
February 11, 1922 in Delaware.

GENERAL GAS AND ELECTRIC (GGS). Incorporated
July 21, 1925 in Delaware.

GENERAL MILLS, INCORPORATED (GIS}. Incorporated
June 20, 1928 in Delaware. Sun 28 degrees Gemini; Moon 4
degrees Leo; Neptune 26 degrees Leo; Uranus 7 degrees Aries;
Saturn 14 degrees Sagittarius Retrograde; Jupiter 3 degrees Taut-
us; Mars 25 degrees Aries; Venus 25 degrees Gemini; Mercury
11 degrees Cancer Retrograde: the Moon’s North Node 8 de-
grees Gemini.

t 149 }

 

--- Page 85 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION (GM). L[acorpor-
ated October 13, 1916 in Delaware.

GENERAL OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (GVZ). Incorpor-
ated February 7, 1925 in New Jersey.

GENERAL PRINTING INK (GPI). Incorporated March 28,
1929 in Delaware.

GENERAL PUBLIC SERVICE (GPV). Incorporated Decem-
ber 17, 1925 in Delaware.

GENERAL RAILWAY SIGNAL COMPANY (GRS}). _ In-
corporated June 13, 1904 in New York.

GENERAL REALTY AND UTILITIES (GRY). Incorpor-
ated January 18, 1929 in Delaware.

GENERAL REFRACTORIES (GRX). Incorporated Octo-
ber 24, 1922 in Pennsyivania.

GENERAL STEEL CASTINGS CORPORATION (GRL). In-
corporated December 11, 1928 in Delaware.

GENERAL THEATRE EQUITY (GTE). Incorporated May
20, 1936 in Delaware.

GENERAL TIME INSTRUMENTS (CGLI). Incorporated
November 20, 1930 in Delaware.

GENERAL TIRE AND RUBBER (GTR). Incorporated Sep-
tember 14, 1915 in Ohio.

GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR (GIL). Incorporated Septem-
ber 10, 1917 in Delaware.

GIMBEL BROTHERS (GI). Incorporated August 22, 1922
in New York.

GLIDDEN COMPANY (GEN}. Incorporated December 11,
1917 in Ohio,

GOBEL (ADOLF) INCORPORATED (GGO). Incorpor-
ated August 20, 1926 in New York.

GOEBEL BREWING COMPANY ({GBL). Incorporated
November 15, 1932 in Michigan.

GOLD AND STOCK TELEGRAPH (GSX). Incorporated
August 10, 1867 in New York.

THE B. F. GOODRICH COMPANY (GG). Incorporated
May 2, 1912 in New York.

150}

 

McWhirter Theory of Steck Market Forecasting

GOODYEAR TIRE AND RUBBER COMPANY (GOR).
Incorporated August 29, 1898 in Ohio.

GOTHAM SILK HOSIERY COMPANY (GHM). Incor-
porated October 27, 1925 in Delaware.

GRAHAM-PAIGE MOTORS CORPORATION (GHR). In-
corporated September 28, 1909 in Michigan.

GRANBY CONSTRUCTION MINING, SMELTING AND
POWDER COMPANY, LTD. (GB). Incorporated March 29,
1901 in British Columbia.

GRAND UNION (GUX)}. Inc. May 17, 1928 in Delaware.

GRANITE CITY STEEL (GRC). Incorporated November 1,
1927 in Delaware. —

GRANT (W. T.) COMPANY (GTY). Incorporated Febrv-
ary 10, 1927 in Delaware.

GREAT NORTHERN IRON ORE PROPERTIES (OR). In-
corporated December 7, 1906 in Minnesota.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY (GQ). Incorporated
March 1, 1856 in Minnesota.

GREAT WESTERN SUGAR (GSW). Incorporated Januaty
12, 1905 in New Jersey.

GREEN BAY AND WESTERN (GBW). Incorporated May
27, 1896 in Wisconsin.

GREENE CANANEA COPPER (GNP). Incorporated De-
cember 26, 1906 in Minnesota.

GREEN (H. L.} (GRN). Incorporated November 17, 1932
in New York.

GREYHOUND CORPORATION (GEY). Incorporated Sep-
tember 20, 1926 in Delaware.

GUANTANANIO SUGAR (GS). Incorporated February 9,
1905 in New Jersey.

GULF, MOBILE AND NORTHERN (GU). Incorporated
December 18, 1916 in Alabama.

“EH”
HACKENSACK WATER (HWA). Incorporated April 25,
1893 in New jersey.

[131 J

 

--- Page 86 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

HALL (W.F.) PRINTING (HPG). Incorporated January
23, 1893 in Illinois.

HAMILTON WATCH (HMW). Incorporated December
14, 1892 in Pennsylvania.

HANNA (M. A.) (HNA). Incorporated December 9, 1922
in Ohio.

HARB-WALKER (HKM). Incorporated June 30, 1902 in
Pennsylvanta.

HAT CORPORATION (HAT). Incorporated April 29, 1932
in Delaware.

HAYES BODY CORPORATION (HYB}. Incorporated May
>, 1910 in Michigan.

HAZEL ATLAS GLASS (HZT). Incorporated October 3,
1901 in West Virginia.

HECKER PRODUCTS (HP). Incorporated December 20,
1928 in New Jersey.

HELME (G. W.) COMPANY (GH). Incorporated De-
cember 2, 1911 in New Jersey.

HERCULES MOTOR CORPORATION (HMO). incorpor-
ated June 8, 1923 in Ohno.

HERCULES POWDER COMPANY (HPC). Incorporated
October 17, 1912 in Delaware.

HERSHEY CHOCOLATE CORPORATION (HSY). Incor-
porated October 24, 1927 in Delaware.

HINDE AND DAU PAPER COMPANY (HDP). incor-
porated March 4, 1900 in West Virginia.

HOLLAND FURNACE COMPANY (HLN). Reincorpor-
ated August 29, 1934 in Michigan.

HOLLANDER, (A.) AND SON (HLL). Incorporated June
27, 1919 in Delaware.

HOLLY SUGAR (HLY). Incorporated April 4, 1916 in
New York.

HOMESTAKE MINING COMPANY (HM). Incorporated
November 5, 1877 in California.

HOUDAILLE-HERSHEY CORPORATION (HH).  Iacor-
porated January 30, 1929 in Michigan.

F152]

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

HOUSEHOLD FINANCE CORPORATION (HOF). In-
corporated July 21, 1925 in Delaware.

HOUSTON OIL COMPANY OF TEXAS (HO). Incorpo-
rated July 5, 1901 in Texas.

HOWE SOUND (HW). Incorporated August 22, 1903 in
Maine.

HUDSON AND MANHATTAN (HX). Incorporated De-
cember 1, 1906 in New York.

HUDSON BAY MINING AND SMELTING LTD. (HBM).
Incorporated December 27, 1927 in Canada,

HUDSON MOTOR CAR (HMT). Incorporated February
24, 1909 in Michigan.

HUPP MOTOR CAR (H}. Incorporated November 24, 1915
in Virginia.

ery”

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY (IL). In-
corporated February 10, 185% in Illinois.

INDIAN REFINING COMPANY (IRR). Incorporated Au-
gust 26, 1926 in Delaware.

INDUSTRIAL RAYON CORPORATION (IER).  Incor-
porated July 20, 1925 in Delaware.

INGERSOLL RAND COMPANY ({IR). Incorporated June
1, 1905 in New Jersey.

INLAND STEEL (ILN)}. Incorporated February 6, 1917 in
Delaware.

INSPIRATION CONSOLIDATED COPPER COMPANY
(INS). Incorporated December 18, 1911 in Maine,

INSURANSHARES CERTIFICATES, INCORPORATED
(ISH). Incorporated October 14, 1929 in Maryland.

INTERBOROUGH RAPID TRANSIT COMPANY (IRT).
Incorporated May 6, 1902 in New York.

INTER CHEMICAL CORPORATION (IKN). Incorporated
April 30, 1937 in Ohio.

INTERCONTINENTAL RUBBER (IRU). Incorporated
September 25, 1922 in Delaware.

[ 153 ]

 

 

--- Page 87 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

INTERLAKE IRON (IKL). Incorporated June 23, 1905 in
New York.

INTERNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CORPORATION
(IGL}. Incorporated June 14, 1909 in New York.

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORA-
TION (IMN). Incorporated June 16, 1911 in New York.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY (HR). In-
corporated September 19, 1918 in New Jersey.

INTERNATIONAL HYDRO-ELECTRIC SYSTEM (IPH).
Incorporated March 25, 1929 in Massachusetts.

INTERNATIONAL MERCHANT-MARINE (MAR). Ia-
corporated June 6, 1893 in New Jersey.

INTERNATIONAL NICKEL COMPANY OF CANADA,
LTD. (N.} Incorporated July 25, 1916 in Canada.

INTERNATIONAL PAPER AND POWDER COMPANY
(IP). Incorporated November 1, 1928 in Massachusetts.

INTERNATIONAL RAILWAYS OF CENTRAL AMERICA
(IRC). Incorporated June 8, 1904 in New Jersey.

INTERNATIONAL SALT (ILS). Incorporated August 22,
1901 in New Jersey.

INTERNATIONAL SHOE COMPANY (ISS). Incorporated
March 16, 1921 in Delaware.

INTERNATIONAL SILVER (INR). Incorporated Novem-
ber 19, 1898 in New Jersey.

INTERNATIONAL TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH
COMPANY (IT). Incorporated Juné 16, 1930 in Maryland.

INTERSTATE DEPARTMENT STORES (ISD). Incorpor-
ated Febmary 14, 1928 in Delaware.

INTERTYPE CORPORATION (IR). Incorporated Febru-
ary 1, 1916 in New York.

ISLAND CREEK COAL COMPANY (ICR). Incorporated
September 30, 1910 in Maine.

ety}?

JEWEL TEA COMPANY (JW). Incorporated January 14,
1916 in New York.

{ 154}

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

JOHNS-MANVILLE CORPORATION (JMP).  Incorpor-
ated December 28, 1926 in New York.

JONES AND LAUGHLIN STEEL (JL). Incorporated De-
cember 19, 1922 in Pennsylvania.

“kK”

KALAMAZOO STOVE AND FURNACE (KAL).  Incor-
porated June 24, 1901 in Michigan.

KANSAS CITY POWER AND LIGHT (KLT). Incorpor-
ated July 29, 1922 in Missouri.

KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN (KSU). Incorporated March
19, 1900 in Missouri.

KAUFMAN DEPARTMENT STORES (KKN).  Incorpor-
ated January 14, 1913 in New York.

KAYSER (J.) COMPANY (JKS). Incorporated June 2,
1911 in New York.

KEITH-ALBEE-ORPHEUM (KLO). January 28, 1928 in
Delaware.

KELSEY-HAYES WHEEL CORPORATION (KW). In-
corporated April 25, 1929 in New York.

KENDALL COMPANY (KLL). Incorporated November 10,
1924 in Massachusetts.

KENNECOTT COPPER CORPORATION (KN). Incor-
porated May 3, 1915 in New York.

KEYSTONE STEEL AND WIRE (KES) Incorporated July
20, 1907 in Illinois.

KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION (KMB). _Incorpor-
ated June 29, 1928 in Delaware.

KINNEY, G. R. (KNX). Incorporated January 17, 1917 in
New York.

KRESGE, S. 5. (KG}. Incorporated Match 9, 1916 in Mich.

KRESGE DEPARTMENT STORES (KDS). Incorporated
August 16, 1923 in Delaware.

KRESS, S. H. (KS). Incorporated June 21, 1916 in N. Y.

KROEGER GROCERY COMPANY (KR). Incorporated
April 3, 1902 in Ohio.

[ 135}

 

 

--- Page 88 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ey
LACLEDE GAS (LG). Incorporated March 2, 1857 in Mis-

souri.

LAMBERT COMPANY (LAM). Incorporated March 15,
1926 in Delaware.

LANE BRYANT (LNY). Incorporated May 28, 1520 in
Delaware.

LEE RUBBER AND TIRE CORPORATION (LR). Incor-
porated December 15, 1915 in New York, |

LEHIGH PORTLAND CEMENT (LPT). Incorporated No-
vember 26, 1897 in Pennsylvania.

LEHIGH VALLEY COAL COMPANY (LEH). Incorpor-
ated May 29, 1871 in Pennsylvania.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY (LV). Onig-
inal company incorporated April 21, 1846 in Pennsylvania. New
company incorporated March 1, 1923 in New Jersey.

LEHMAN CORPORATION (LEM). Incorporated Septem-
ber 11, 1929 in Delaware.

LEHN AND FINK (LNP). Incorporated August 4, 1925 in
Delawate.

LERNER STORES (LER). Incorporated February 14, 1929
in Maryland.

LIBBEY-OWENS-FORD GLASS COMPANY (LOF). In-
corporated May 18, 1916 in Ohio.

LIBBY, McNEIL AND LIBBY (LJ). Incorporated August
6, 1903 in Maine.

LIFE SAVERS (LV). Incorporated August 12, 1933 in Dela-
wate.
LIGGETT AND MYERS TOBACCO COMPANY (LM).
Incorporated November 24, 1911 in New Jersey.

LILY TULIP CUP (LIL). Incorporated February 4, 1929 in
Delaware.

LIMA LOCOMOTIVE WORKS (LMW). Incorporated
April 25, 1916 in Virginia.

LINK BELT COMPANY (LB). Incorporated November 13,
1880 in Iilinois.

[156 3

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

LIQUID CARBONIC CORPORATION (LQT).  Incorpor-
ated July 23, 1926 in Delaware,

LOEW'S INCORPORATED (LW). Incorporated October
18, 1919 in Delaware.

LOFT INCORPORATED (LF). Incorporated September 24,
1919 in Delaware.

LONE STAR CEMENT (LCM). Incorporated November 15,
1919 in Maine.

LONG-BELL LUMBER (LQ). Incorporated April 5, 1884 in

LOOSE-WILES BISCUIT COMPANY (LO). Incorporated
May 2, 1912 in New York.

P. LORILLARD COMPANY (LOR). Incorporated Novem-
ber 24, 1911 in New Jersey.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE (LN). Incorporated
Match 5, 1850 in Kentucky.

LOUISVILLE G. AND E. (LOU). Incorporated February 17,
1913 in Delaware.

LUDLUM STEEL COMPANY (LMS). Incorporated March
26, 1915 in New Jersey.

Ml”
MacANDREWS AND FORBES COMPANY (MAF). In-

-corporated May 8, 1902 in New Jetsey.

MACK TRUCKS, INCORPORATED (MQ). Incorporated
November 8, 1916 in New York.

MACY, R. H., COMPANY (MZ). Incorporated May 28,
1919 in New York.

MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORPORATION (MAQ).
Incorporated May 31, 1923 in New York.

MAGMA COPPER COMPANY (MMX). Incorporated May
7, 1910 in Maine.

MANATI SUGAR CO. (MNO). Incorporated April 30,
1912 in New York.

MANDEL BROTHERS, INC. (MB). Incorporated April 21,
1926 in Delaware.

F157 ]

 

--- Page 89 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

MANHATTAN RAILWAY COMPANY (MAN.) _ Incor-
porated November 20, 1875 in New York.

MANHATTAN SHIRT COMPANY (MT). Incorporated
January 15, 1912 in New York.

MARACAIBO OIL EXPLORATION (MAB). Incorporated
September 8, 1919 in Delaware.

MARINE MIDLAND CORPORATION (MM)}._ Incorpor-
ated September 23, 1929 in Delaware.

MARKET STREET RAILWAY COMPANY (MRR). incor-
porated October 13, 1893 in California.

MARLIN-ROCKWELL CORPORATION (MR). _Incorpor-
ated December 26, 1894 in Delaware.

MARSHALL FIELD AND COMPANY (MFI). Incorpor-
ated March 7, 1901 in ILlinois.

MARTIN, G. L.. COMPANY (MGL). Incorporated Decem-
ber 5, 1928 in Maryland.

MARTIN PARRY CORPORATION (MRT). Incorporated
May 26, 1919, in Delaware.

MATHIESON ALKALI WORKS INC. (AKL). Incorpor-
ated August 13, 1892 in Virginia.

MAY DEPARTMENT STORES (MA). Incorporated June
4, 1910 in New York.

MAYTAG COMPANY (MYG). Incorporated August 15,
1925 in Delaware.

McCALL CORPORATION (MW). Incorporated February
6, 1913 in Delaware.

McCRORY STORES (MRY). Incorporated May 20, 1915 in
Delaware.

McGRAW ELECTRIC (MGR). Incorporated November 17,
1926 in Delaware.

McGRAW-HILL PUBLISHING COMPANY (MCG). In-
corporated December 29, 1925 in New York.

McINTYRE-PORCUPINE MINES LTD. (MT). Incorpor-
ated March 16, 1911 in Canada.

McKEESPORT TIN PLATE COMPANY (MV). Incor-

porated January 2, 1902 in Pennsylvania.

{158}

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

McKESSON AND ROBBINS INCORPORATED (MCK).
Incorporated August 4, 1928 in Indiana,

McLELLAN STORES (MLL). Incorporated June 12, 1924 in
Delaware.

MEAD CORPORATION (MEA). Incorporated February 17,
1930 in Ohio.

MELVILLE SHOE CORPORATION (MES). Incorporated
May 1, 1914 in New York.

MENGEL COMPANY (MGX)}. Incorporated July 12, 1899
in New Jersey.

MESTA MACHINERY COMPANY (MCC). Incorporated
November 21, 1898 in Pennsylvania.

MIAMI COPPER COMPANY (MMP). Incorporated No-
vember 30, 1907 in Delaware.

MID-CONTINENT PETROLEUM CORPORATION
(MPZ). Incorporated July 9, 1917 in Delaware.

MIDLAND STEEL PRODUCTS COMPANY (MPO). In-
corporated March 21, 1923 in Ohio.

MILWAUKEE ELECTRIC RAILWAY (MY). Incorporated
January 30, 1896 in Wisconsin.

MINNESOTA-HONEYWELL (MHW’). Incorporated Octo-
ber 27, 1927 in Delaware.

MINNESOTA-MOLINE (MMW). Incorporated March 30,
1929 in Delaware.

MINNESOTA SAINT PAUL SAULT ST. MARIE (MSM).
Incorporated June 11, 1888 in Minnesota.

MISSION CORPORATION (MCO). Incorporated Decem-
ber 31, 1934 in Nevada.

MISSOURI-KANSAS-TEXAS R.R. COMPANY (KT). In-
corporated July 6, 1922 in Missouri.

MISSOURI-PACIFIC R.R. COMPANY (MOP). Incorpor-
ated March 5, 1917 in Missouri.

MOHAWK CARPET MILLS (MOK). Incorporated August
18, 1920 in New York.

MONSANTO CHEMICAL (MTC). Reincorporated March
28, 1933 in Delaware.

{ 159 }

 

 

--- Page 90 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

MONTGOMERY WARD AND COMPANY (M).  Incor-
porated December 3, 1919 in Illinois.

MORRELL (JOHN) AND COMPANY (MOL). Organized
December 7, 1915 in Maine.

MORRIS AND ESSEX R.R. COMPANY (ME). Iacorpor-
ated January 29, 1835 in New Jersey; road opened January 1,
1854.

MOTHER LODE COALITION (MOR). Incorporated April
17, 1919, in Delaware.

MOTOR PRODUCTS CORPORATION (MPS). Incorpor-
ated January 28, 1926 in New York.

MOTOR WHEEL CORPORATION (MRW). Incorporated
January 17, 1920 in Michigan.

MUELLER BRASS (MUB). Incorporated December 31, 1917
in Michigan.

MULLINS MANUFACTURING CORP (MNS). Iacorpor-
ated July 19, 1919, in New York.

MUNSINGWEAR INC. (MUN). Incorporated May 8, 1923
in Delaware.

MURPHY (G. C.) COMPANY (MPH). Incorporated De-
cember 31, 1919 in Pennsylvania.

MURRAY CORPORATION OF AMERICA (MUY). In-
cotporated December 27, 1926 in Delaware.

MYERS (F. E.) AND BROTHERS (MBC). Incorporated
November 19, 1927 in Ohio.

“IN”

NASH-KELVINATOR (NSK). Incorporated December 23,
1936 in Maryland.

NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA AND ST. LOUIS R. R.
CO. (CHA). Incorporated January 21, 1850 in Tennessee.

NATIONAL ACME (NCM). Incorporated November 17,
1916 in Ohio.

NATIONAL AVIATION (NIV). Incorporated June 23,
1928 in New York.

NATIONAL BISCUIT COMPANY (BI). Incorporated
February 3, 1898 in New Jersey.

{ 160 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

NATIONAL BOND AND INVESTMENT COMPANY
(NBI). Incorporated May 27, 1921 in Delaware.

NATIONAL BOND AND SHARES (NBS). Incorporated
February 21, 1929 in Delaware.

NATIONAL CASH REGISTER COMPANY (NCR). Ia-
corporated January 2, 1926 in Maryland.

NATIONAL DAIRY PRODUCTS CORP. (NPT). Incor-

rated December 8, 1923 in Delaware.

NATIONAL DEPARTMENT STORES (NX). Incorporated
December 22, 1922 in Delaware.

NATIONAL DISTILLERS PRODUCTS CORPORATION
(NAD). Incorporated April 18, 1924 in Virginia.

NATIONAL ENAMELING AND STAMPING COMPANY
(EGK). Incorporated January 21, 1899 in New Jersey.

NATIONAL GYPSUM COMPANY (NGY). Incorporated
August 29, 1925 in Delaware.

NATIONAL LEAD COMPANY (LT). Incorporated De-
cember 7, 1892 in New Jersey.

NATIONAL MALLEABLE AND STEEL CASINGS (NML)}.
Incorporated December 1, 1923 in Ohio.

NATIONAL POWER AND LIGHT (NPL). Incorporated
December 7, 1925 in New Jersey.

NATIONAL RAILWAY OF MEXICO (MX). Incorporated
February 24, 1902 in Utah.

NATIONAL STEEL CORPORATION (NAX).  Incorpor-
ated November 7, 1929 in Delaware.

NATIONAL SUPPLY OF DELAWARE (NSC). Incorpor-
ated December 11, 1922 in Delaware.

NATIONAL TEA COMPANY (NTY). Incorporated Feb-
ruaty 6, 1903 in Illinois.

NATOMAS COMPANY (NOM). Incorporated November
13, 1928 in California.

NEISNER BROTHERS (NEB). Incorporated April 6, 1916
in New York.

NEWBERRY, J. J. COMPANY (NE). Incorporated Febru-
ary 15, 1923 tn Delaware.

f 161}

oo: - —— -. .

 

--- Page 91 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

NEW ORLEANS, TEXAS, AND MEXICO (NOX). Inacor-
porated February 29, 1916 in Louisiana.

NEWPORT INDUSTRIES (NEP). Incorporated September
5, 1931 in Delaware.

NEW YORK AIR BRAKE (AB). Incorporated July 1, 1890
in New Jersey.

NEW YORK CENTRAL R.R. COMPANY (CN}.  Incor-
porated December 22, 1914 in New York.

NEW YORK, CHICAGO, AND ST. LOUIS (NKP). In-
corporated April 11, 1923 in Ohio.

NEW YORK CITY OMNIBUS (NYB). Incorporated Janu-
aty 22, 1925 in New York.

NEW YORK DOCK (DK). Incorporated July 18, 1901 tn
New York.

NEW YORK AND HARLEM (HAR). Incorporated April
25, 1831 in New York. Road opened May 10, 1852.

NEW YORK INVESTORS {(NYK). Incorporated January
19, 1929 in New York.

NEW YORK, LACKAWANNA, AND WESTERN (NL).
Incorporated August 24, 1880 in New York.

NEW YORK, NEW HAVEN, AND HARTFORD RAIL-
ROAD (V). Incorporated August 6, 1872 in Connecticut.

NEW YORK, ONTARIO AND WESTERN (OW). Incor-
porated January 21, 1880 in New York.

NEW YORK SHIPBUILDING (NSB). Incorporated No-
vember 29, 1916 in New York.

NEW YORK STEAMER (NSM). Incorporated July 14, 1921
in New York.

NORFOLK AND WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
(NFK)}. Incorporated January 15, 1896 in Virginia.

NORFOLK SOUTHERN (NS). Incorporated May 2, 1910
in Virginia.

NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION, INC. (NAV).  Incor-
porated December 6, 1928 in Delaware.

NORTH AMERICAN COMPANY (NA). Incorporated
June 14, 1890 in New Jersey.

[ 162]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

NORTH AMERICAN EDISON (NAE). Incorporated March
25, 1922 in Delaware.

NORTHERN CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY (NNX).
Incorporated December 16, 1854 in Pennsylvania.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY (NP.).
Incorporated March 15, 1870 in Wisconsin.

NORTHERN STATES POWER. Incorporated December 23,
1909 in Delaware.

NORTHWESTERN TELEGRAPH (NWT). Incorporated
July 1, 1881 in Wisconsin.

NORWALK TIRE AND RUBBER COMPANY (NRT). In-
corporated March 23, 1914 in Connecticut.

*“()”

OHIO OIL COMPANY (OHO}. Incorporated July 30,
1887 in Ohio. Sun 6 degrees Leo; Moon 14 degrees Sagittarius;
Neptune 29 degrees Taurus; Uranus 9 degrees Libra; Saturn 27
degrees Cancer; Jupiter 27 degrees Libra; Mars 12 degrees Can-
cer; Venus 21 degrees Virgo; Mercury 4 degrees Leo Retrograde;
the Moon’s North Node 19 degrees Leo.

OLIVER FARM EQUIPMENT (OF). Incorporated February
13, 1929 in Delaware.

OMNIBUS CORPORATION (BUZ). Incorporated April
17, 1923 in Delaware.

OPPENHEIM COLLINS (OPS). Incorporated September
10, 1924 in Delaware.

OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY (OT). Incorporated Novem-
ber 28, 1898 in New Jersey.

OUTLET COMPANY (OTU). Inc. July 18, 1925 in KR.

OUTBOARD MARINE AND MANUFACTURING COM-
PANY (OMN). Incorporated September 30, 1936 in Delaware.

OWENS-ILLINOIS GLASS COMPANY (OB). Incorpor-
ated December 16, 1907 in Ohio.

p”

PACIFIC AMERICAN FISHERY (PCF). Incorporated May

2, 1928 in Delaware.

[ 163 ]

 

--- Page 92 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

PACIFIC COAST COMPANY (PCX). Incorporated No-
vember 29, 1897 in New Jersey.

PACIFIC FINANCE CORPORATION OF CALIFORNIA
(PF). Incorporated February 26, 1931 in Delaware.

PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC (PCG). Incorporated Oc-
tober 10, 1905 in California.

PACIFIC LIGHTING CORPORATION (PLI). Incorporated
March 21, 1907 in California.

PACIFIC MILLS (PFS). Incorporated November 14, 1914 in
British Columbia.

PACFIC TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH (PAC). Incor-
porated December 31, 1906 in California.

PACIFIC WESTERN OIL (PWO). Incorporated November
10, 1928 jn Delaware.

PACKARD MOTOR CAR COMPANY (PAR). tacorpor-
ated September 1, 1909 in Michigan.

PAN-AMERICAN PETROLEUM (PP). Incorporated Feb-
ruaty 4, 1916 in Delawate.

PANHANDLE PRODUCTS AND REF. (PDF). Incorpor-
ated October 16, 1919 in Delaware.

PARAFFINE COMPANY (PAF). Incorporated November
20, 1917 in Delaware.

PARAMOUNT PICTURES (PX). Incorporated july 19,
1916 in New York.

PARK AND TILFORD (PKT). Incorporated August 6,
1923 in Delaware.

PARK-UTAH CONSOLIDATION MINING (PUC). In-
cotporated January 21, 1917 in Delaware.

PARKE-DAVIS COMPANY (PDC}. Incorporated January
14, 1875 in Michigan.

PARKER RUST-PROOF COMPANY (PRK). Incorporated
May 13, 1929 tn Michigan.

PARMELEE TRANSPORT COMPANY (PTE}. Incorpor-
ated April 12, 1929 in Delaware.

PATHE FILM (PTH). Incorporated December 28, 1914 in
New York.

[ 164 }

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

PATINO MINES (PAE). Inc. July 5, 1924 in Delaware.

PEERLESS CORPORATION (PSS). Incorporated Novem-
ber 1, 1915 in Virginia.

PENICK AND FORD (PFK). Incorporated February 7,
1920 in Delaware.

PENNEY, J. C., COMPANY (PEJ). Incorporated Decem-
ber 15, 1924 in Delaware.

PENNSYLVANIA COAL AND COKE (PVX). Incorpor-
ated November 11, 1911 io Pennsylvania.

PENN-DIXIE CEMENT (DXC). Incorporated September
16, 1926 in Delaware.

PENNSYLVANIA GLASS SAND CORPORATION (PGS).
Incorporated July 13, 1927 io Pennsylvania.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY (PA). Incor-
porated April 13, 1846 in Pennsylvania. Road opened February
15, 1854 in Pennsylvania.

PEOPLE’S DRUG STORES (PDG). Incorporated April 2,
1928 in Maryland.

PEOPLES’ GAS LIGHT AND COKE COMPANY (PO).
Incorporated February 12, 1855 in Illinois.

PEORIA AND EASTERN (PE). Incorporated February 21,
1890 in ILlinois.

PERE MARQUETTE RAILROAD (PQ). Incorporated March
12, 1917 in Michigan.

PET MILK COMPANY (PET). Incorporated March 31,
1925 in Delaware.

PETROLEUM CORPORATION OF AMERICA (PEO).

Incorpotated January 16, 1929 in Delaware.

PFEIFFER BREW (PFB). Incorporated February 5, 1926 in
Michigan,

PHELP-DODGE CORPORATION (PDO). Incorporated
August 10, 1885 in New York.

PHILADELPHIA COMPANY (PH). Incorporated March
22, 1871 in Pennsylvania.

PHILADELPHIA RAPID TRANSIT (PV). Incorporated
May 1, 1902 in Pennsylvania.

f 165}

 

--- Page 93 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

PHILADELPHIA READING COAL AND IRON COR-
PORATION (PRC). Incorporated December 19, 1923 in Dela-
ware.

PHILIP MORRIS, LTD. (MOS). Incorporated February 21,
1919 in Virginia.

PHILLIPS JONES CORPORATION (PJ). Incorporated Aug-
ust 15, 1919 in New York.

PHILLIPS PETROLEUM (P). Incorporated June 13, 1917 in
Delaware.

PHOENIX HOSIERY COMPANY (PXY). Incorporated
November 27, 1922, in Wisconsin.

PIERCE OIL CORPORATION (POL). Incorporated June
21, 1913 in Virginia.

PILLSBURY FLOUR MILLS (PSY). Incorporated June 23,
1909 in Delaware.

PIRELLI COMPANY (PRL). Incorporated November 3,
1920 in Italy.

PITTSBURGH COAL COMPANY (PC). Incorporated
January 12, 1916 in Pennsylvania,

PITTSBURGH COKE AND IRON (PCK). Incorporated
August 28, 1928 in Pennsylvania.

PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO (FW).
Incorporated February 28, 1862 in Pennsylvania.

PITTSBURGH SCREW AND BOLT (PIT). Incorporated
March 19, 1929 in Pennsylvania.

PITTSBURGH STEEL (PG). Incorporated November 11,
1901 in Pennsylvania.

PITTSBURGH TERMINAL COAL (PPT). Incorporated
April 28, 1902 in Pennsylvania.

PITTSBURGH UNITED (PUN). Incorporated March 18,
1891 in Pennsylvania,

PITTSBURGH AND WEST VIRGINIA RAILWAY (PW).
Incorporated January 29, 1917 in Pennsylvania and West Vir-
ginia,

PITTSTON COMPANY (PCO). Incorporated January 13,
1930 in Delaware.

F 166 }

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

PLYMOUTH OIL (PYO}. Incorporated October 19, 1923
in Delaware.

POND CREEK POCAHONTAS COMPANY (PND). In-
corporated February 20, 1923 in Maine.

POOR AND COMPANY (POR). Incorporated Apnil 4,
1928 in Delaware.

PORTO RICO AMERICAN TOBACCO (PRT). Incorpor-
ated September 22, 1899 in New Jersey.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH AND CABLE (PST). Incorporated
May 18, 1928 in Maryland.

PRESSED STEEL CAR (PSL). Incorporated January 2, 1899
in New Jersey.

PROCTOR AND GAMBLE COMPANY (PGM). Iacor-
porated May 5, 1905 in Ohio.

PUBLIC SERVICE OF NEW JERSEY (PUB). Incorporated
May 6, 1903 in New Jersey.

PUBLIC SERVICE ELECTRIC AND GAS (PEG). Incor-
porated July 25, 1924 in New Jersey.

PULLMAN INCORPORATED (PU). Incorporated June 21,
1927 in Delaware.

One OIL COMPANY (PUY). Incorporated April 8, 1914
in Ohio.

PURITY BAKERIES (PTY). Incorporated December 1,
1924 in Delaware.

QUAKER STATIONS OIL (QKR). Incorporated June 23,
1931 in Delaware.

*R”?
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA (R)}. Incorporated
October 17, 1919 in Delaware.
RADIO-KEITH-ORPHEUM (RKO). Incorporated October
25, 1928 in Maryland.
RAILROAD SECTION, ILLINOIS, CENTRAL STOCK
(RSY). Incorporated February 20, 1896 in New Jersey.

[ 167 ]

 

--- Page 94 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

RAYBESTOS-MANHATTAN (RAY). Incorporated July 5,
1929 in New Jersey.

READING COMPANY (RDG). Incorporated May 24, 1871
in Pennsylvania.

RAYONIER INC. (RNR). Incorporated November 1, 1937
in Delaware.

REAL SILK HOSIERY (RSH). Incorporated October 1,
1923 in Hknais.

ROBERT REIS AND COMPANY (RIS). Incorporated May
13, 1885 in New York.

RELIABLE STORES CORPORATION (RES). Incorporated
May 12, 1925 in Maryland.

RELIANCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY (RMC). In-
corporated December 22, 1922 in Illinois.

REMINGTON-RAND INC. (RR). Incorporated January 25,
1927 in Delawate.

RENSSELAER AND SARATOGA (RNS). Incorporated;
leased May 1, 1871 in New York to Delaware Hudson,

REO MOTOR CAR (RY). Incorpotated August 16, 1904 in
Michigan.

REPUBLIC STEEL CORPORATION (RBC). Incorporated
May 3, 1899 in New Jersey.

REVERE COPPER AND BRASS (RVB). Incorporated De-
cember 1, 1928 in Maryland.

REYNOLDS METALS (RLM). Incorporated July 18, 1928
in Delaware.

REYNOLDS SPRING COMPANY (RSA). Incorporated
July 2, 1919 in Delaware.

REYNOLDS (R. J.) FOBACCO COMPANY (REY). In-
corporated April 3, 1899 in New Jersey.

RHINE-WESTPHALIA ELECTRIC POWER (RWE). In-
corporated June 24, 1898 under German laws.

RICHFIELD OIL CORPORATION (RIL). Incorporated
November 14, 1936 in Delaware.

RITTER DENTAL MANUFACTURING COMPANY
(RDL). Incorporated June 30, 1926 in Delaware.

{ 168 ]

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ROAN ANTELOPE COPPER MANUFACTURING COM-
PANY (RNO). Incorporated June 3, 1927 in Great Britain.

RUBEROID COMPANY (RBR). Incorporated June 16,
1905 in New Jersey.

RUTLAND RAILROAD COMPANY (RV). Consolidated
December 23, 1901 in Vermont.

*Q”?

SAFEWAY STORES, INC (SAF). Incorporated March 24,
1926 in Maryland.

ST, JOSEPH LEAD COMPANY (JO). Incorporated March
25, 1864 in New York.

ST. LOUIS-SAN FRANCISCO RAILWAY (FN). Incor-
porated August 24, 1916 in Missouri.

SAVAGE ARMS (SA). Incorporated August 14, 1915 in
Delaware.

SCHENLEY DISTILLERS (SHN). Incorporated July 11,
1933 in Delaware.

SCHULTE RETAIL STORES (SHO). Incorporated Septem-
ber 5, 1919 in Delaware.

SEABOARD AIR LINE (SBD). Incorporated December 1,
1898 in North Carolina and Virginia.

SEABOARD OIL OF DELAWARE (MSX). Incorporated
September 12, 1919 in Delaware.

SEAGRAVE CORPORATION (SVE}. Incorporated Janu-
ary 5, 1925 in Michigan.

SEARS, ROEBUCK COMPANY (8). Incorporated June 16,
1906 in New York. Sun 24 degrees Gemini; Moon 24 degrees
Aries; Neptune 9 degrees Cancer; Uranus 7 degrees Capricorn
Retrograde; Saturn 14 degrees Pisces; Jupiter 20 degrees Gemini;
Mars 3 degrees Cancer; Venus 25 degrees Cancer; Mercury 3
degrees Cancer; the Moon’s North Node 14 degrees Leo.

SERVEL, INCORPORATED (SVL). Incorporated December
16, 1927 in Delaware.

SHARON STEEL CORPORATION (SSH). Incorporated
October 8, 1900 in Pennsylvania.

[ 169 }

 

--- Page 95 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SHARP AND DOHME (SDH). Incorporated December 27,
1926 in Maryland.

SHATTUCK (F. G.} COMPANY (FHK). Incorporated
May 31, 1936 in Massachusetts.

SHELL UNION OIL (SUX). Incorporated February 8, 1922
in Delaware.

SILVER KING COALITION (SKC). Incorporated May 20,
1907 in Nevada.

SIMMONS COMPANY (SIM). Incorporated December 14,
1915 in Delaware.

SIMMS PETROLEUM COMPANY (SV). Incorporated June
27, 1919 in Delaware.

SIMONDS SAW AND STEEL COMPANY (SDS). _Incor-

rated December 20, 1922 in Massachusetts.

SKELLY O1L COMPANY (SYE). Incorporated August 20,
1919 in Delaware.

SLOSS-SHEFFIELD STEEL (SLS). Incorporated August 16,
1899 in New Jersey.

SMITH (A. O.} CORPORATION (SMC). Incorporated
November 13, 1916 in New York.

SMITH (L. C.) CORONA TYPEWRITERS (SLT). Iacor-

tated October 30, 1924 in New York.

SNIDER PACKING CORPORATION (SNR). Incorporated
September 3, 1919 in New York.

SOCONY-VACUUM OIL (SOV). Incorporated August 10,
1882 in New York.

SOLVAY-AMERICAN (SO). Incorporated January 24,
1927 in Delaware.

SOUTH AMERICA GOLD AND PLATINUM (SGP). In-
corporated October 11, 1916 in Delaware.

SOUTH PORTO RICO SUGAR (PSU). Incorporated No-
vember 16, 1900 in New Jersey.

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON (SCE). Incorporated
July 6, 1909 in California.

SOUTHERN DAIRIES, INCORPORATED ({SD)._ Incor-
porated August 5, 1925 in Delaware.

[170 4}

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY (SX). Incorporated
Marsch 17, 1884 in Kentucky.

SOUTHERN RAILWAY (SR). Incorporated February 20,
1894 in Virginia.

SPALDING (A. G.} AND BROS. (AGS). Incorporated
February 2, 1892 in New Jersey.

SPARKS-WITHINGTON COMPANY (SKW). Incorpor-
ated December 24, 1919 in Ohio.

SPEAR AND COMPANY (SST). Incorporated December
15, 1903 1n New Jersey.

SPENCER KELLOGG AND SONS (SK). Incorporated Aug-
ust 13, 1912 in New York.

SPERRY CORPORATION (SPC). Incorporated April 12,
1933 in Delaware.

SPICER MANUFACTURING COMPANY (SSY). This
stock was incorporated October 12, 1916 in the State of
Virginia.

SPIEGEL, INCORPORATED {SMS}. Incorporated April
28, 1928 in Delaware. Sun 7 degrees Taurus; Moon 27 degrees
Leo; Neptune 26 degrees Leo Retrograde; Uranus 5 degrees
Aries; Saturn 18 degrees Sagittarius Retrograde; Jupiter 21
deprees Aries; Mars 16 degrees Pisces; Venus 20 degrees Aries;
Mercuty 2 degrees Taurus; the Moon's North Node 11 degrees
Gemini. :

STANDARD BRANDS, INCORPORATED (SB). Incor-
porated June 28, 1929 in Delaware.

STANDARD COMMON TOBACCO (SDT). Incorporated
August 10, 1916 in Delaware.

STANDARD GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY (SG). In-
corporated April 28, 1910 in Delaware.

STANDARD INVESTING CORPORATION (SVG). In-
corporated January 31, 1927 in Maryland.

STANDARD OIL OF CALIFORNIA (SCD). incorporated
January 27, 1926 in Delaware.

STANDARD OIL OF INDIANA (SN). Incorporated June
18, 1889 in Indiana.

[171}

 

--- Page 96 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

STANDARD OIL OF KANSAS (SKL). Incorporated De-
cember 24, 1892 in Kansas.

STANDARD OIL OF NEW JERSEY (J). Incorporated
August 5, 1882 in New Jersey.

STARRETT, (L. S.J. (SCX). Incorporated February 20, 1929

in Delaware.

STERLING PRODUCTS, INCORPORATED (STY). In-
corporated April 9, 1932 in Delaware.

STEWART-WARNER CORPORATION (STX).  Incor-
porated December 20, 1912 in Virginia.

STOKELY BROS. AND COMPANY (SBC). Incorporated
August 13, 1936 in Indiana,

STONE AND WEBSTER (SW). Incorporated June 25, 1929
in Delaware.

STUDEBAKER CORPORATION (STU}. Incorporated
January 26, 1935 in Delaware.

SUN OIL COMPANY (SUN). Iscorporated May 2, 1901
in New Jetsey.

SUNSHINE MINING COMPANY (SMN)}). Incorporated
May 28, 1918 in Washington (State).

SUPERHEATER COMPANY (SUH). Incorporated October
25, 1912 in Delaware.

SUPERIOR OIL CORPORATION (SI). Incorporated Octo-
ber 26, 1917 in Delaware.

SUPERIOR STEEL (SSU). Incorporated December 21, 1916
in Virginia.

SUTHERLAND PAPER COMPANY (SU). Incorporated
April 3, 1917 in Michigan.

SWEETS COMPANY OF AMERICA (SWA). Incorporated
June 28, 1919 in Virginia.

SWIFT AND COMPANY (SWX). Incorporated April 1,
1885 in Illinois.

SWIFT INTERNATIONAL (SWI). (South American Com-
pany). Incorporated June 26, 1918 in Argentine Republic.

SYMINGTON-GOULD (SYG). Incorporated December 2,
1924 in Maryland.

[ 172}

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

wT

TALCOTT (J.), INCORPORATED (TLC). Incorporated
December 24, 1914 in New York.

TELAUTOGRAPH CORPORATION (TZ). Incorporated
November 26, 1915 in Virginia.

TENNESSEE CORPORATION (TCC). Incorporated Octo-
ber 11, 1916 in New York.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY (TP). Incorporated
March 3, 1871 in Texas.

TEXAS CORPORATION (TX). Incorporated August 26,
1926 in Delaware.

TEXAS GULF PRODUCTS (TPX). Incorporated Aprif 3,
1931 in Delaware.

TEXAS GULF SULPHUR (TG). Incorporated December
23, 1909 in Texas.

TEXAS PACIFIC COAL AND OIL COMPANY (TES). In-
corporated October 4, 1888 in Texas.

TEXAS PACIFIC LAND TRUST (TXL). Organized Feb-
ruary 1, 1888 m Texas.

THATCHER MANUFACTURING COMPANY (TCR). In-
corporated February 15, 1905 in New York.

THERMOID COMPANY (THR). Incorporated January 28,
1929 in Delaware,

THIRD AVENUE RAILWAY COMPANY (TAY). Incor-
porated April 10, 1910 in New York.

THOMPSON (J. R.) COMPANY (THM). Incorporated
April 13, 1914 in West Virginia.

THOMPSON PRODUCTS (THO). Incorporated January
2, 1901 in Ohio.

THOMPSON-STARRETT (TST). Incorporated December
3, 1928 in Delaware.

TIDE WATER ASSOCIATED OIL COMPANY (TVN).
Incorporated March 5, 1926 in Delaware.

TIMKEN-DETROIT AXLE COMPANY (TDX). Incor-
porated June 11, 1909 in Ohio.

{ 173 }

 

--- Page 97 ---
McWhirter Theory of Steck Market Forecasting

TIMKEN ROLLER BEARING COMPANY (TKR). Incor-
porated December 13, 1904 in Ohio.

TRANSAMERICA CORPORATION (TA). Incorporated
October 11, 1928 in Deiaware.

TRANSCONTINENTAL AND ‘WESTERN AIRLINE
(TWA). Incorporated December 27, 1934 in Delaware.

TRANSUE AND WILLIAMS (TU). Incorporated March
3, 1930 in Delaware.

TRICCONTINENTAL CORPORATION (TCL). Incorpor-
ated December 31, 1929 in Maryland.

TRUAX-TRAER COAL COMPANY (TRC). Incorporated
December 27, 1926 in Delaware.

TRUSCON STEEL (TUX). Incorporated October 6, 1903 in
Michigan.

TWENTY CENTURY FOX FILM CORPORATION (TCF).
Incorporated February 1, 1915 in New York.

TWIN-CITY RAPID TRANSIT COMPANY (TWC). In-
corporated June 3, 1891 in New Jersey.

TWIN COACH COMPANY (TWN). Incorporated April
5, 1927 in Delaware.

“U”

ULEN AND COMPANY (ULE). Incorporated February 10,
1922 in Delaware.

UNDERWOOD-ELLIOT-FISHER COMPANY (UNX). In-
corpotated December 29, 1927 in Delaware.

UNION BAG AND PAPER (BP). Incorporated October 4,
1916 in New Jersey.

UNION CARBIDE AND CARBON CORPORATION
(UN). Incorporated November 1, 1917 in New York.

UNION OIL OF CALIFORNIA (UCL). Incorporated Octo-
ber 17, 1890 in California,

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY (UP). _Incor-
potated July 1, 1897 in Utah.

UNION TANK CAR (UTX). Incorporated July 14, 1891
in New Jersey.

[1744

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

UNITED AIR LINES (ULT). Incorporated July 20, 1934 in
Delaware,

UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION (UAR).  Incorpo-
fated July 21, 1934 in Delaware,

UNITED AMERICAN BOSCH (BOS). Incorporated Janu-
ary 9, 1919 in New York.

UNITED BISCUIT COMPANY (UBS). Incorporated No-
vember 3, 1927 in Delaware.

UNITED CARBON COMPANY (UCB). Incorporated Feb-
tuary 19, 1925 in Delaware.

UNITED CAR FASTENER CORPORATION (UCF). In-
corporated April 12, 1928 in Massachusetts.

UNITED CORPORATION (DEL.) (U). Incorporated Jan-
uary 7, 1929 in Deiaware.

UNITED DRUG INC, (UND). Incorporated August 14,
1933 in Delaware.

UNITED DYEWOOD (UDY). Incorporated September 26,
1916 in Delaware,

UNITED ELECTRIC COAL (UEL). Incorporated August 3,
1918 in Delaware.

UNITED ENGINEER AND FOUNDRY (UEF). Consoli-
dated on May 1, 1917 in Pennsylvania.

UNITED FRUIT (UF). Incorporated March 30, 1899 in
New Jersey.

UNITED GAS IMPROVEMENT COMPANY (UGI). This
stock was incorporated June 1, 1882 in the State of
Pennsylvania.

UNITED PAPERBOARD (PB). Incorporated February 29,
1912 in New Jersey.

U. 8S. AND FOREIGN SECURITIES (UFO). Incorporated
October 9, 1924 in Maryland.

U. 8. DISTRIBUTING (UM). Incorporated June 20, 1921
in New York.

U. 8. FREIGHT COMPANY (UFG). Incorporated 1925 in
Delaware; consolidated with Central Container Company of New
York January 24, 1932,

[175]

 

--- Page 98 ---
McW hirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

U. §&. GYPSUM COMPANY (USG). Incorporated August
12, 1920 in J1linois.

U. S, HOFFMAN MACHINERY (HMY).
January 19, 1922 in Delaware.

U. &. INDUSTRIAL ALCOHOL (UD). Incorporated Octo-
ber 16, 1906 in West Virginia.

U. 8. LEATHER (LX). Incorporated June 23, 1927 in N. J.

U. S. PIPE AND FOUNDRY COMPANY (CJ). Incorpo-
rated March 2, 1899 in New Jersey.

U. 8. REALTY AND IMPROVEMENT COMPANY (UZ).
Incorporated May 26, 1904 in New Jersey.

U. 8. RUBBER COMPANY (RU). Incorporated March 30,
1892 in New Jersey.

U. 8. SMELTING, REFINING AND MINING COMPANY
(UV). Incorporated January 9, 1906 in Maine.

U. §. STEEL CORPORATION (X). Incorporated February
23, 1901 in New Jersey. Sun 4 degrees Pisces; Moon 4 degrees
Taurus; Neptune 26 degrees Gemini Retrograde; Uranus 16 de-

Incorporated

grees Sapittarius; Saturn 13 degrees Capricorn; Jupiter 6 degrees.

Capricorn; Mars 2 degrees Virgo Retrograde; Venus 17 degrees
Aquarius; Mercury 21 degrees Pisces; the Moon’s North Node
27 degrees Scorpio.

U. §. TOBACCO COMPANY (UBO}. Incorporated Decem-
ber 2, 1911 in New Jersey.

UNITED STOCKYARDS (UST}.
1936 in Delaware.

UNITED STORES (UDS}.
Delaware.

UNIVERSAL CYCLOP STEEL CORPORATION (UCS). Ia-
corporated June 22, 1908 in Pennsylvania.

UNIVERSAL LEAF FOBACCO (UVV).
uaty 25, 1918 in Virginia.

UNIVERSAL PICTURES (UVP).
1925 in Delaware.

UTILITY POWER AND LIGHT (ULA).
March 19, 1915 in Virginia.

Incorporated May 15,

Incorporated June 8, 1929 in

Incorporated Jan-
Incorporated January 10,
Incorporated

[ 176}

 

l

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting :

wy"

VADSCO SALES CORPORATION (VAD). Incorporated
August 6, 1919 in Delaware. |

VAN RAALTE COMPANY (VRT). Incorporated Novem-
ber 12, 1919, in New York.

VANADIUM CORPORATION (VA).
tember 6, 1919 in Delaware.

VICK CHEMICAL (VIK).
Delaware.

VICKSBURG, SHREVEPORT, AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
(VKS). Incorporated April 23, 1901 in Louisiana,

VIRGINIA-CAROLINA CHEMICAL CORPORATION
(VC). Incorporated March 24, 1926 in Virginia.

VIRGINIA ELECTRIC AND POWER (VE).
June 29, 1909 in Virginia.

VIRGINIA IRON, COAL AND COKE (VK).
rated January 19, 1899 in Virginia.

VIRGINIAN RAILWAY (VA). Incorporated February 20, 7
1904 in Virginia.

|

Incorporation Sep-
Incorporated August 12, 1933 in :

Incorporated

Tncorpo-

VULCAN DETINNING COMPANY (VX). Incorporated

April 26, 1902 in New Jersey.
“Wy?

WABASH RAILWAY (WA).
1915 in Indiana.

WALDORF SYSTEM (WXY).
1919 in Massachusetts.

WALGREEN COMPANY (WAG).
5, 1909 in ILlinots.

WALKER (H) G. AND W. LTD. (HIR).
December 31, 1926 in Canada,

WALWORTH COMPANY (WAL).
ary 12, 1872 in Massachusetts

WARD BAKING COMPANY (WD). Incorporated Decem-
ber 27, 1923 in Maryland.

WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES (WB).
April 4, 1923 in Delaware.

Incorporated October 22,
Incorporated April 18,

Incorporated February
Incorporated
Incorporated Febru-

Incorporated

[177]

       

--- Page 99 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

WARREN BROTHERS COMPANY (WAR). Incorporated
February 5, 1900 in West Virginia.

WARREN FOUNDRY AND PIPE (WFP). Incorporated
April 8, 1927 in Delaware.

WAUKESHA MOTOR COMPANY (WAD). Incorporated
May 28, 1906 in Wisconsin.

WEBSTER EISENLOHR (WBS). Incorporated February 13,
1911 in Pennsylvania.

WELLS FARGO AND COMPANY (WF). Incorporated
February 1, 1923 in Colorado.

WESSON OIL AND SNOWDRIFT (WNO)}. Incorporated
May 20, 1925 in Louisiana,

WEST AUTO SUPPLY COMPANY (WST). Incorporated
Novembet 17, 1914 in Missouri.

WESTERN MARYLAND RAILWAY (WM). Incorporated
February 15, 1917 in Maryland.

WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD CORPORATION (WR).
Incorporated June 29, 1916 in Delaware.

WEST PENN ELECTRIC COMPANY (WEP).  Incorpo-
tated December 11, 1925 in Maryland.

WEST PENN POWER COMPANY (WPP}. Incorporated
March 1, 1916 in Pennsylvania.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY (W). In-
cotporated April 1, 1851 in New York.

WESTINGHOUSE AIR BRAKE (WKM). Incorporated
September 28, 1869 in Pennsylvania.

WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC AND MANUFACTURING
COMPANY (WX). Incorporated April 9, 1872 in Penna.

WESTERN ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (WZ). Incorporated
December 11, 1924 in New Jersey.

WESTVACO CHLORINE PRODUCTS (WCO). _ Incor-
porated December 15, 1926 in Delaware.

WHEELING AND LAKE ERIE (WL). Incorporated De-
cember 14, 1916 in Ohio.

WHEELING STEEL (WHX)}. Incorporated June 21, 1920
in Delaware.

[ 178 ]

 

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

WHITE (S. S$.) DULANY COMPANY. Incorporated Apri!
4, 1910 in Washington State.

WHITE MOTOR (WHI). Incorporated December 23, 1915
in Ohio.

WHITE ROCK M. SP. (WHR). Incorporated May 4, 1906
in Wisconsin.

WHITE SEWING MACHINE (WSW). Incorporated Janu-
ary 11, 1926 in Delaware.

WILCOX OIL AND GAS (WXC). Incorporated November
4, 1918 in Delaware.

WILLYS-OVERLAND INC. (WO). Incorporated 1936 in
Delaware; production started December 1, 1936.

WILSON AND COMPANY (WIL). Incorporated Novem-
ber 30, 1925 in Delaware.

WOODWARD IRON COMPANY (WOD). Incorporated
November 14, 1911 in Delaware.

WOOLWORTH (F. W.) COMPANY (2). Incorporated
December 15, 1911 in New York.

WORTHINGTON PUMP AND MACHINE COMPANY
(WPO). Incorporated February 17, 1937 in Delaware.

WRIGHT-AERONAUTICAL (WAC). Incorporated Octo-
ber 9, 1918 in New York.

WRIGLEY, WILLIAM, JR. COMPANY (WW Y).  Incor-
porated October 19, 1927 in Delaware.

oy”
YALE AND TOWNE (YA). Incorporated February 22,
1882 in Connecttcut.
YELLOW TRUCK AND COACH MANUFACTURING
COMPANY. (YC). Incorporated August 25, 1910 in Maine
YOUNG SPRING AND WIRE (YG). Incorporated March
27, 1918 in Michigan.
YOUNGSTOWN SHEET AND TUBE COMPANY (YB).
Incorporated November 23, 1900 in Ohio.
YOUNGSTOWN STEEL DOOR COMPANY (YSD). In-
corporate December 9, 1924 in Ohio.

{ 179 }

 

--- Page 100 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

ey’

ZENITH RADIO CORPORATION (ZE). Incorporated
July 5, 1923 in Illinois. Sun 12 degrees Cancer; Moon 6 degtees
Aries; Neptune 16 degrees Leo; Uranus 17 degrees Pisces Retro-
gtade; Saturn 13 degrees Libra; Jupiter 9 degrees Scorpio Retro-
gtade; Mars 23 degrees Cancer; Venus 24 degrees Gemini; Mer-
oy 24 degrees Gemini; the Moon's North Node 14 degrees

irgo.

ZONITE PRODUCTS CORPORATION (ZP)}. Incorporated
June 18, 1927 in Delaware. Sun 26 degrees Gemini; Moon 5
degrees Aquarius; Neptune 24 degrees Leo; Uranus 3 degrees
Aries; Saturn 2 degrees Sagittarius Retrograde; Jupiter 1 degree
Aries; Mats 7 degrees Leo; Venus 11 degrees Leo; Mercury
20 degrees Cancer; the Moon’s North Node 28 degrees Gemini.

* = @*

Planetary Positions from 1850-1930 are given in terms of

Greenwich Mean Time Noon.

Planetary Positions from 1931-1950 are given in terms of
Greenwith Mean Time Midnight.

[ 180 |

 

|

 

Chapter VI

Simplified Ephemeris of the Planets—
1938-1950

HiIS§ simplified ephemeris of the planets is a table of the

planetary positions given every twenty-eight days at the time
of the New Moon or lunation. At this time of the month the
angular relationship of the planets give a clue to the trend of
business as well as the stock market for the coming twenty-eight
days. By means of simple proportion the degrees of the planets
are easily obtainable for any day between any two lunation
petiods. The average daily motion for the Sun is: 59°08”; the
average daily motion for the Moon is 13 degrees 1036”; the
average daily motion of Mercury is 59°08”; the average daily
motion for Venus is 59’08”; the average daily motion for Mars
is 33’28”; the average daily motion for Jupiter is 4’59”; the
average daily motion for Saturn is 2’; the average daily motion
for Uranus is 42”; the average daily motion for Neptane is 24”.

* * #* *

 

 

JANUARY 1, 1938. Sun 9 degrees Capricorn; Moon 9
degrees Capricorn; Neptune 21 degrees Virgo; Uranus 9 de-
gtees Taurus; Saturn 29 degrees Pisces; Jupiter 2 degrees Aqua-
tius; Mars 7 degrees Pisces; Vetus 1 degree Capricorm; Mer-
cuty 5 degrees Capricorn. The North Node 4 degrees Sagittarius

JANUARY 31, 1938. Sun 10 degrees Aquarius; Moon 10
degrees Aquarius; Neptune 20 degrees Virgo retrograde; Uranus
9 degrees Taurus; Saturn 1 degree Aries; Jupiter 9 degrees
Aquarius; Mars 0 degrees Aries; Venus 9 degrees_Aquatius;

[isi |

 

--- Page 101 ---
 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Mercury 17 degrees Capricorn. The Moon’s North Node 2
degrees Sagittarius. Aspects in force at this lunation were Sun
and Moon sesqui-quadrate Neptune; square Uranus; conjunc-
tion Jupiter; semi-square Mars and conjunction Venus.

(No New Moon in February)

MARCH 2, 1938. Sun 10 degrees Pisces; Moon 10 degrees
Pisces; Neptune 20 degrees Virgo retrograde; Uranus 10 degrees
Taurus; Saturn 4 degrees Aries; Jupiter 16 degrees Aquarius;
Mars 22 deprees Aries; Venus 17 degrees Pisces; Mercury 5
degrees Pisces; the Moon’s North Node 1 degree Sagittarius.
Aspects in force at this lunation were Sun and Moon opposition
Neptune; sextife Uranus; semi-sextile Jupiter; conjunction Venus.

MARCH 31, 1938. Sun 9 degrees Aries; Moon 9 degrees
Aries; Neptune 19 degrees Virgo 19 degrees Virgo retrograde;
Uranus 11 degrees Taurus; Saturn 8 degrees Aries; Jupiter 22 de-
grees Aquarius; Mars 13 degrees Taurus; Venus 23 degrees
Aries; Mercury 28 degrees Aries; the Moon’s North Node 29
degrees Scorpio. Aspects in force at this lunation were: Sun and
Moon semi-sextile Uranus; conjunction Saturn; semi-square
Jupiter.

APRIL 30, 1938. Sun 9 degrees Taurus; Moon 9 degrees
Taurus; 18 degrees Virgo retrograde; 13 degrees Taurus; Saturn
11 degrees Aries; Jupiter 28 degrees Aquarius; Mars 4 degrees
Gemini; Venus 0 degrees Gemini; Mercury 26 degrees Aries
retrograde. The Moon’s North Node 27 degrees Scorpio. Aspects
in force at this time are Sun and Moon trine Neptune; conjunc-
tion Uranus; semi-sextile Saturn.

MAY 29, 1938. Sun 6 degrees Gemini; Moon 6 degrees
Gemini; Neptune 18 degrees Virgo retrograde; Uranus 15 de-
gtees Taurus; Saturn 14 degrees Aries; Jupiter 1 degree Pisces;
Mars 23 degrees Gemini; Venus 5 degrees Cancer; Mercuty 13
degrees Taurus. The Moon’s North Node 26 degrees Scorpio.
Aspects in force at this lination were Sun and Moon semi-square
Saturn; square Jupiter; semi-sextile Venus.

[ 182}

                

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

JUNE 27, 1938. Sun 4 degrees Cancer; Moon 4 degrees
Cancer; Neptune 18 degrees Virgo; Uranus 16 degrees Taurus;
Saturn 17 degrees Aries; Jupiter 2 degrees Pisces retrograde;
Mars 13 degrees Cancer; Venus 9 degrees Leo; Mercury 9 de-
grees Cancer. The Moon’s North Node 24 degrees Scorpio.
Aspects in force at this lunation are Sun and Moon semi-square
Uranus; trine Jupiter; semi-square Venus.

JULY 27, 1938. Sun 3 degrees Leo; Moon 3 degrees Leo;
Neptune 19 degrees Virgo; Uranus 17 degrees Taurus; Saturn
18 degrees Aries; Jupiter 0 degree Pisces retrograde; Mars 2
degrees Leo; Venus 14 degrees Virgo; Mercury 0 degree Virgo.
The Moon's North Node 23 degree Scorpio. Aspects in force
at this lunation are Sun and Moon semi-square Neptune; con-
junction Mars; semi-sextile Venus.

AUGUST 25, 1938. Sun 1 degree Virgo; Moon 1 degree
Virgo; Neptune 20 degree Virgo; Uranus 17 degrees Taurus
retrograde; Saturn 17 degrees Aries retrograde; Jupiter 26
degrees Aquatius retrograde; Mars 21 degrees Leo; Venus 16
degrees Libra; Mercury 7 degrees Virgo retrograde. The Moon's
North Node 21 degrees Scorpio. Aspects in force at this luna-
tion are Sun and Moon sesquiquadrate Saturn; opposition Jupiter;
semi-square Venus; conjunction Mercury.

SEPTEMBER 23, 1938. Sun 29 degrees Virgo; Moon 29
degrees Virgo; Neptune 21 degrees Virgo; Uranus 17 degrees
Taurus retrograde; Saturn 15 degrees Aries retrograde; Jupiter 23
degrees Aquatius retrograde; Mars 9 degrees Virgo; Venus 14
degrees Scorpio; Mercury 15 degrees Virgo. The Moon's North
Node 20 degrees Scorpio. Aspects in force at this lunation are
Sun and Moon conjunction Neptune; semi-square Venus.

OCTOBER 23, 1938. Sun 28 degrees Libra; Moon 28 de-
grees Libra; Neptune 22 degrees Virgo; Uranus 16 degrees
Taurus retrograde; Saturn 13 degrees Aries retrograde; Jupiter
22 degrees Aquarius; Mars 28 degrees Virgo; Venus 3 degrees

[ 183 J

 

--- Page 102 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Sagittarius; Mercury 7 degrees Scorpio; the Moon’s North Node
18 degrees Scorpio. Aspects in force at this lunation are Sun
and Moon semi-square Neptune; semi-sextile Venus; semi-
sextile Mars.

NOVEMBER 22, 1938. Sun 29 degrees Scorpio; Moon 29
degrees Scorpio; Neptune 23 degrees Virgo; Uranus 15 degrees
Taurus retrograde; Saturn 11 degrees Aries retrograde; Jupiter
24 degrees Aquarius; Mars 17 degrees Libra; Venus 26 degrees
Scorpio; Mercury 20 degrees Sagittarius; the Moon’s North Node
17 degrees Scorpio. Aspects in force at this lunation are Sun
and Moon semi-square Mats.

DECEMBER 21, 1938. Sun 28 degrees Sagittarius; Moon 28
degrees Sagittarius; Neptune 23 degrees Virgo; Uranus 14 de-
grees Taurms retrograde; Saturn 11 degrees Aries; Jupiter 28
degrees Aquarius; Mars 5 degrees Scorpio; Venus 21 degrees
Scorpio; Mercury 14 degrees Sagittarius retrograde. The Moon's
North Node 15 degrees Scorpio. Aspects in force at this luna-
tion are Sun and Moon square Neptune; sesqui-quadrate Uranus;
sextile Jupiter; semi-square Mars; semi-sextile Venus.

= * *

1939

JANUARY 20, 1939. Sun 29 degrees Capricorn; Moon 29
degrees Capricorn; Neptune 23 degrees Virgo retrograde; Uranus
13 degrees Taurus retrograde; Saturn 12 degrees Aries; Jupiter
4 degrees Pisces; Mars 24 degrees Scorpio; Venus 12 degrees
Sagittarius. Mercury 10 degrees Capricorn. The Moon’s North
Node 13 degrees Scorpio. Aspects in force at this lunation are
Sun and Moon trine Neptune; sextile Mars; semi-square Venus.

[184]

 

 

Pages 185-217 have been omitted from this edition. It is of
course recommended that an ephemeris be used for the com-
putation of planetary positions. Of those available today, being
the most accurate, complete, and inexpensive are the Rosicru-
cian Ephemeris, and Astro-Computing Service’s American
Ephemeris.

Those students desiring monthly lunation data should ob-
tain the AFA Mundane data booklet for the current year. If
these are not available from your local bookstore, you may
order direct from:

ASI Publishers
63 West 38th Street, Suite 505
New York, New York 10018

 

--- Page 103 ---
 

Chapter VII

Glossary of Terms

ANGLES.—The four angular positions of a chart; that ts,
the first, tenth, seventh, and fourth houses. They are called the
ascendant, mid-heaven, descendant, and nadir.

ASCENDANT —This is the sign and degree on the first house
of a chart. It is sometimes called the “rising sign”. Planets
transiting this sign on the chart of the New York Stock Exchange
have a powerful effect on stock market action as well as pointing
out important changes in the affairs of this country.

ASPECTS —-The angular distance between planets which deter-
mine their influence favorably or unfavorably on stock market
conditions,

The SQUARE aspect is 90 degrees and exerts an unfavorable
influence.

The OPPOSITION aspect is 180 degrees and exerts an un-
favorable infuence.

The SEXTILE aspect ts 60 degrees and exerts a favorable
influence.

The TRINE aspect is 120 degrees and exerts a favorable
influence. These four aspects are the major aspects or the most
powerful aspects in strength of influence.

The minor aspects or angles of lesser influence between the
planets are:

The SEMI-SQUARE aspect of 45 degrees which is unfavorable
in influence.

The SESQUI-QUADRATE aspect of 135 degrees which exerts
an unfavorable influence.

The SEMI-SEXTILE aspect of 30 degrees which exerts a
favorable influence.

[ 186 }

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

CONJUNCTION.—When two or more planets are placed in
the same sign of the zodiac and within 9 degrees of each other
they are said to be in conjunction. This is an aspect of major
strength which is variable in nature and influence. The nature of
the planets involved determine whether the aspect is favorable
or unfavorable in influence.

CUSP.—The beginning or edge of a house of section of a
chatt. The sign on the cusp, or line at the beginning of a house,
is the miler of that house, together with its ruling planet. Planets
passing over the Cusp or line of a house are more important than
planets which have moved on into this house, since the Cusp is
a very sensitive area.

DEGREE.—The zodiac, which is diagramatically shown on a
chart of twelve sections or houses, consists of twelve signs which
contain 30 degrees each. A degree of a sign contains 60 min-
utes (’) of longitude and each minute contains 60 (”)} seconds
of longitude.

DESCENDANT —The seventh cusp or house of a chart.

ECLIPTIC.—-The Sun's path as it appears to go around the
Earth. In reality, it is the path of the Earth around the Sun.
The Ecliptic is taken as the standard line of celestial motion in
our solar system. The planets move along this line sometimes
to the North of the Ecliptic and sometimes to the south of it.
A planet's position north or south of the Sun’s path determines
its latitude. |

EPHEMERIS — (plural Epbemerides.) The Ephemeris is sim-
ply an almanac of the planets’ places for any certain year. It
gives the geocentric longitude, declination, aspects, luoations, and
other valuable information necessary in setting up a chart in this
work. Most Ephemerides are derived from the Nautical Almanac
published by the Government.

GEOCENTRIC.—This word is derived from two Greek
words: geo-meaning earth, and ceniric-meaning center. Jt means
assuming the Earth as being the center of our solar system and to
study the aspects and influences of the planets as they reach the
Farth. Astrology stadies the planetary positions and their effects

{ 187 ]

 

 

 

--- Page 104 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

in relation to the Earth not the Sun; therefore, in this work an
Ephemeris which gives the geocentric position of the planets is
used. When the Sun is taken as the center of our solar system,
which in reality it is, with the Earth and the other planets in
relation to it, we have what is known as the heliocentric positions

of the planets. Helios means Sun; and centric means center. |

This, however, is of no benefit to individuals on the Earth. It
would be of benefit only if we lived on the Sun, since the plane-
taty effects are taken in relation to the Sun. We want the plane-
tary position and effects in relation to the Earth on which we live;
therefore, we use the geocentric positions of the planets only.

HOUSE.—The word “house” is used in this work to designate
one-twelfth of the heavens as viewed from the Eatth. These
twelve segments are represented on a chart, in the shape of a
wheel, and each corresponds with one of the twelve signs of the
zodiac,

HOUSE-POSITION.—This is a term used to designate the
number of the section of a chart in which a planet or planets
fall. There are twelve houses to a chart which rotate numerically
counter-clockwise.

INTERCEPTED.—Due to the shift of the horizon in relation
to the birthplace, as a chart is erected north or south of the equa-
tor, a full sign of the zodiac will often fall between two cusps.
The sign is then said to be “intercepted” in a house. This is most
noticeable as one moves farther north or farther south of the
equator. When a sign is intercepted in a house, the opposite sign
is also intercepted in the opposite house. For an example of an
intercepted sign, see the Chart of the New York Stock Exchange
where the sign of Aries (‘f) is intercepted in the tenth house or
mid-heaven of the chart, and its opposite sign of Libra (=) is
intercepted in the opposite house, which is the 4th house of the
chart, sometimes called the nadir.

JUPITER-—This is the largest planet of the solar system. In
this work, it represents the principle of expansion. It has a
twelve year cycle, that is, it retutns to the same place in the
zodiac every twelve years. It bas been found out that the passage

[188 J

 

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

of Jupiter through the ruling sign of any country usually marks
a period of prosperity for that country, particularly, if it is in
favorable aspect to either Uranus or Saturn at the same time.
Jupiter rules the sign of Sagittarius.

LUNATION.—This is the name for the conjunction of the
Sun and Moon which occurs every twenty-eight days in one of
the twelve signs of the zodiac. The lunation during any month
is often referred to as the “New Moon”. The method used in
this book for forecasting monthly trends on the New York Stock
Exchange is based on the position and aspects of the lunation
each month.

MARS.—This planet moves through the zodiac once every
two years or on an average of about every 22 months. It is one
of the rulers of the mid-heaven of the New York Stock Exchange
Chart, since Aries is an intercepted sign in the tenth house of this
chart, and Mars is the ruler of Aries. Aspects to this planet at
the lunation are highly important, since they are indicative of a
coming change in the trend of stocks on the New York Stock
Exchange. Mars represents the principle of activity and force.
Active markets always have Mats aspected strongly in some man-
ner. Study well the aspects to Mars at the lunation each month,
as well as its sign-position and house-position in the Chart of
the New York Stock Exchange. It will reveal much concerning
the volume of sales for the coming month in the stock market,
either as active buying or active selling of stocks.

MID-HEAVEN.-~This is the name of the cusp of the tenth
house in any astrological chart. It is sometimes called the meri-
dian and its abbreviation ts M.C. This abbreviation is from the
two latin words, “Medium Coelz’’, which translated literally mean
the “middle of the heavens’. The mid-heaven represents the
noon position in clock time. On the Chart of the New York
Stock Exchange, this important angle ot cusp has always pointed
out, by means of planetary transits, every important change in
the trend of the stock market. Study well this house and the
planets which are in it as well as the aspects to Mars and Nep-
tune, the two planetary rulers of the mid-heaven in the New York

{ 189 }

  

--- Page 105 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

Stock Exchange Chart at every lunation, It will reveal much
concerning the trend of the stock market during the coming
twenty-eight days.

MERCURY —This planet is of minor impostance in so far
as this work is concerned. Its main significance in this book is
the fact that it has joint rulership over the sign of Gemini (the
sign which is on the ascendant of the Chart of the United States),
and the sign of Virgo, which is placed on the fourth cusp of the
Chart of the New York Stock Exchange. Aspects to this planet
at the monthly lunation, and the aspects which Mercury makes to
the major planets, particularly, Saturn and Uranus, should always
be noticed. It sometimes happens that when Saturn and Uranus
are in favorable or unfavorable aspect and a change in the trend
of the stock market is about to occur, although neither of these
planets were aspected at the previous lunation, it will be found
that Mercury was in conjunction with one of the planets at the
lunation and the lunation made an aspect to Mercury. There-
fore, it is seen that Mercury often acts as 2 “tie-up” planet.
Mercury never gets more than 28 degrees away from the Sun as
seen from the Earth. It has a cycle of approximately eighty-eight
days during which time it circles the 12 signs of the Zodiac.

MUTABLE SQUARE.—The twelve signs of the zodiac ate
divided into FOUR ELEMENTS (Fire, Water, Earth, and Air),
of THREE QUALITIES (Leading, Fixed, and Muable), each.
The grouping is as follows:

 

FIRE SIGNS WATER SIGNS
(Spirit) (Emotion)
ARIES (7) Leading CANCER (%5) Leading
LEo (SL) Fixed SCORPIO (m,) Fixed
SAGITTARIUS (7) Mutable PISCEs (3€) Mutable
AIR SIGNS EARTH SIGNS
(Mind) (Body)
LIBRA (2:) Leading CAPRICORN (V7) Leading
AQUARIUS (27) Fixed TAURUS (4) Fixed
GEMINI (3<) Mutable Virco (1m) Mutable

[ 190 ]

    

 

 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

The four LEADING signs form a square (Aries, Cancer, Libra
and Capricorn) which have to do with the conscious mind of
man.

The four FIXED signs form a square (Leo, Scorpio, Aquarius
and Taurus) which are related to the sb-conscious mind of man.

The four MUTABLE signs form a square which have to do
with the sxper-conscions mind of man. They are Sagittarius,
Pisces, Gemini and Virgo.

The FIRE Signs are related to Spirit.

The WATER signs are related to Emotion.

The AIR signs are related to Mind.

The EARTH signs are related to the Physical World, They are
practical and materialistic. Planets heavily placed in Earth
Signs turns men’s minds toward the material world and its
development.

When the Mutable Square (or the Leading or Fixed Square)
is referred to, it signifies the placing of the signs involved on a
cross or square. For example the Mutable Square looks like this
see (a}; [The Leading Square see (2) and the fixed Square see
(c) are made in the same way by placing all the Leading Signs on
a cross or square, and all the Fixed Signs together on a cross or
square. }

* Ms
(@) muTAae (bh) LEADING i) RIxXED
The study of the twelve signs of the zodiac according to this
table will reveal more than the study of hundreds of books on
the subject. It is especially valuable in giving a quick judgment
on the basic makeup of any individual whose birthdate you know,

F191}

 

-_—_—___

--- Page 106 ---
 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

and upon whom you wish further information.

NEW MOON .—This is a synonymous term for the lunation
or conjunction of the Sun and Moon which occurs every 28 days
in one of the twelve signs of the zodiac.

NEPTUNE.—This planet moves so slowly that it takes ap-
proximately one hundred and sixty-five years to pass through
the twelve signs of the zodiac. It passes through a sign about
evety fourteen years. This means Neptune only moves about 2
degrees a year and 84 seconds a day! Its influence is therefore
felt in any degree of the zodiac over a long period of time. In
this work Neptune has particulac significance, since it is the
planetary ruler of the sign Pisces, which is culer of the tenth
house or cusp of the Chart of the New York Stock Exchange
along with the intercepted sign of Aries, Unfavorable Aspects
(conjunction, square, opposition, sesqui-quadrate, semi-square) to
Neptune at any lunation have usually pointed out a slump or
selling wave in stocks during the coming twenty-eight days, if
there was no favorable aspect between Saturn and Uranus present
at the same time to keep the major trend of stocks upward. Watch
all aspects to Neptune both at the lunation, and from the major
planets; it will reveal much about the action of the stock market
that is unaccountable in any other way.

NORTH NODE.--In old books the North Node is sometimes
referred to as the “Dragon’s Head” and its opposite point called
the “Dragon’s Tail’. The North Node ts in reality the point
where the orbit of the Moon cuts the ecliptic, as the Moon moves
from south into north latitude. The South Node is the point in
the zodiac where the Moon crosses from north latitude into south
latitude. The North Node is said to have an expansive influence
similar to Jupiter and the South Node a restrictive influence
similar to the planet Saturn. The Moon’s North Node has a
cycle of nineteen years, that is, it takes nineteen years for the
North Node to pass through the twelve signs of the zodiac. It
always moves backward through the zodiac. This cycle ts highly
irapostant and it is taken as the basis for forecasting the rise and
fall of business conditions as well as stock market prices. The

[192 }

   

 

en rae

McWhirter Theory of Stack Market Forecasting

Business Cycle Chart, as originated by the writer, is based com-
pletely on the cycle of the Moon’s North Node. Study well the
planetary aspects to the North Node as well as the secondary
factors present. The trend and conditions of all types of business
can be learned in this way.

OPPOSITION.—This is an unfavorable aspect or angle be-
tween two or more planets placed 180 degrees apart. This means
that the planets are placed in opposite signs of the zodiac. The
orb of influence for an opposition aspect is nine degrees, The
symbol for the opposition aspect is ¢.

ORB.—Sometimes referred to as the “orb of influence” of a
planet or aspect, it relates to the distance in degrees in which a
planet's influence or aspect can be felt. When the phrase “within
orb” is used it means that the planet or aspect has come within
the prescribed distance in which its influence can be felt.

ORBIT —The path of a planet around the Sun is called its
orbit.

PLANETS —In this work we call the Sun, Moon, Mercuty,
Venus, Mars, Saturn, Jupiter, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto the ten
planets with which we work.

PLUTO.—This planet, which was discovered in March, 1930,
is the latest addition to the list of known planets today. Very
little is known of its influence at the present time. It is generally
conceded to rule the sign of Scorpio. In this work it has been
found to be prominently placed and aspected during booms and
depressions; therefore, it is evident that it has significance and
influence in the business and financial world with which this work
is concerned. During the next ten-year period (1940-1950)
Pluto will be in the first 15 degrees of the sign of Leo.

RETROGRADE.—All planets, except the Sun and Moon, ap-
pear to move backward through the zodiac at certain times. When
you find a planet marked Retrograde (Rx) in the Ephemeris, ot
in any other geocentric Ephemeris of the planets’ places, it simply
means that, from the viewpoint of Earth, the planet is apparently
moving backward through the signs, instead of forward, or in
direct motion.

{ 193 }

 

 

--- Page 107 ---
 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

RULER.—It has been found through research and experience
that certain planets have an affinity for certain signs in the zodiac.
The planet which is strongest in a sign is said to be its rulers.
The twelve signs with their planetary rulers are given in Chap-
ter lil.

SATURN .—Saturn is one of the most beautiful planets in the
heavens, but its effect on human affairs appears to be restriction
and discipline. Saturn has a cycle of thirty years; therefore, it
stays in a sign approximately two and a half years. In studying
the trend of the stock market, Saturn is particularly significant
if it is in aspect with the governmental planet Uranus. Saturn
stands for restriction and delay; depression; and poor business.
Its symbol is b.

SECONDARY FACTOR.—This term refers to the major
planetary aspects which act in connection with the Business Curve
(as portrayed by the nineteen year cycle of the North Node).
They have influence, according to their strength, to distort the
normal position of the Business Curve from five per cent to
twenty per cent. They can either inflate the Curve or deflate it
from the position it would otherwise hold. The most important
secondary factors used in this work are, the aspects between
Satur and Uranus, and the transit of the major planets through
the sign of Gemini, which has strong afhnity for the United
States.

SEMI-SEXTILE.—This is a minor favorable aspect of 30
degrees. Its symbol is y¥. In this work its orb of influence
is 3 degrees.

SESQUI-OUADRATE,.—This aspect or angle between planets
placed four and a half signs apart is unfavorable in influence,
although it is considered of minor strength. It is an aspect of
135 degrees which has an orb of influence of 3 degrees. Its
symbol is (J. (See ASPECTS in this chapter. For use of aspects
see Chapter III.)

SEXTILE.—This aspect or angle between planets placed two
signs apart is favorable in influence and has major strength. It
is an aspect of 60 degrees which has an orb of influence of 5

[ 194]

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

degrees. The symbol for the sextile aspect is >. (For further
information on aspects and their uses see Chapter III.)

SOU ARE.—This aspect or angle between planets placed three
signs apart is unfavorable in influence and has major strength.
It is an aspect of 90 degrees which has an orb of influence of
5 degrees. The symbol for the square aspect is]. (For further
information on the various aspects and their uses see Chapter II.
Also ASPECTS in this Chapter. )

TRANSIT .—This is the passage or movement of a planet over
an important point in a chart.

TRANSITION PERIOD.—The Transition Period refers to the
Business Cycle Chart given in Chapter I. When the North Node,
moving backward through the zodiac, reaches the sign of Scorpio,
the Business Curve is said to have reached a Transition Period as
the North Node goes through the signs of Scorpio and Libra.
This transit marks the gradual upswing of the Business Curve as it
slowly moves from Normal to Above Normal business volume and
activity. As the North Node reaches the sign of Taurus on this
same Business Cycle Chart, business activity again experiences @
Transition Period, as the Curve of business volume swings slowly
downward from Normal to Below Normal activity and prices.

TRINE.—This aspect or angle between planets placed four
signs apart is favorable in influence and has major strength. It
is an aspect of 120 degrees which has an orb of influence of 5
degrees in this work. The symbol for the trine aspect, which is
considered the most favorable of all aspects is A. (For further
information on the vatious aspects and their uses see Chapter III.
See ASPECTS in this Chapter.)

URANUS.—tThis planet, which was discovered in Match,
1871, has been found to have particular significance in relation
to finance and business. It also has strong affinity for govern-
mental matters and those placed at the head of the Government.
When in aspect with the planet Saturn, it has a marked effect on
stock market prices, depending upon the nature of the aspect
existing between the two planets. It has a cycle of 84 years and
therefore takes approximately seven years to pass through one

[ 195 J

 

  

--- Page 108 ---
 

McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

sign of the zodiac. It is sudden, changeful, independent, and
revolutionary in nature. The symbol for Uranus is HM. It rules
the sign of Aquarius.

VENUS.—Venus has only a minor planetary influence in this
work in relation to business, finance, and the stock market. Like
Mercury, it is often a tie-up planet at a lunation bringing into
play major planetary aspects that were otherwise dormant. Watch
the transit of Venus over the mid-heaven and the ascendant of
the New York Stock Exchange Chart. Bond prices are often at
their highest under the transit of this planet over the mid-heaven
of the Chart. Venus has a cycle of two hundred and twenty-four
days, that is, it passes through the twelve signs of the zodiac
during this time. It is benefic in nature and has much the same
influence as the planet Jupiter, although to 2 lesser degree. Venus
niles all industry which has to do with the artistic, feminine, and
beautiful. The symbol for Venus is 9. It has rulership over
the signs of ‘Taurus and Libra.

ZODIAC .—This ts a narrow belt around the heavens, divided
into twelve signs of 30 degrees longitude each, through which
the planets transit.

{ 196 ]

     

 

APPENDIX

Sign Rulership of the Countries

BUSINESS and finance in this country is strongly influenced,
at times, by world economic conditions. It is, therefore,
advantageous to know the sign rulership of the various nations
of the world. The transit of the major planets through these
signs mark out history for these countries as though it were hand-
wiiting on the wall.
* * £ & &

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
ARIES: England, Denmark, Judea, Germany, Peru.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
TAURUS: Italy, Ireland, Persia, Chili.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
GEMINI: The United States, Wales, Egypt.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
CANCER: China, Africa, Holland.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
LEO: France, Australia.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
VIRGO: Switzerland, Turkey, Uruguay.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
LIBRA: Japan, Upper Egypt, Argentine Republic, Austria.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
SCORPIO: Morocco, Brazil.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
SAGITTARIUS: Spain, Arabia,

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
CAPRICORN: India, New Zealand, Mexico.

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
AQUARIUS: Russia, Sweden, Prussia.

f 197 ]

 

 

--- Page 109 ---
McWhirter Theory of Stock Market Forecasting

COUNTRIES UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF THE SIGN
PISCES: Portugal, some parts of Mexico.

As the various planets transit the twelve signs of the zodiac,
certain marked effects are noticeable in the country ruled by the
sign which experiences the transit. Briefly these are as follows:

JUPITER: The passage of Jupiter through a country's ruling
sign marks a period of prosperity for that country with an expan-
sion of industry, rising prices and general well being, unless
there is a strongly unfavorable aspect to Jupiter present at the
saine time.

SATURN: The passage of Saturn through a country’s ruling
sign brings depression, war, crop failures, depressed stock market
prices and bond values, disaster, loss, and trouble.

URANUS: The passage of Uranus through a country’s ruling
sign brings about the most revolutionary and epoch-making
changes known. The old form of government is usually discarded
for a more liberal form of government. Panics often occur with
complete collapse of the country’s financial structure following.
Strikes and labor difficulties and much discontent among the
people is common during this transit. If the country does not
become involved in war with a foreign country, it usually suffers
civil war or internal upheavals.

NEPTUNE: This planet brings about mterna!l disintegration,
chaos, upheavals of a political and religious nature, panics, an-
archy, plots against the governmental heads, inflation followed by
a complete financial collapse of the country’s financial interests.

MARS, VENUS and MERCURY move so fast that their effects
on a country is felt mainly through conjunction with one of the
above major planets.

PLUTO: So little is known at the present time about the planet
Pluto that its effects cannot be listed with certainty. However, it
can be satd that it has a marked influence on business and financial
conditions in this country and when it is favorably aspected by one
of the major planets, it can lift the Business Curve sharply, and,
when in unfavorable aspect, depress the Business Curve in the
same extreme manner.

{ 198 }

 

 

Notes:

 
