George Bayer 
HERE - all posts related to George Bayer
"I remember reading George Bayer’s book Stock & Commodity Traders 
Handbook of Trend Determination. In rule #2 he states that when Mars and 
Mercury has a speed differential of 59 minutes we are due for a down trend 
in wheat. Of course, he was right. That blew my mind because as a 
counseling full-time astrologer since 1965, I never ever conceptualized  using 
astrology in this manner. But it did help me to change my astrological mind 
set."
Alphee Lavoie (2006 - HERE)
George Bayer was a financial astrologer 
and trader who made market forecasts during the same time as W. D. Gann. 
He was born in Germany and moved to the USA just after 1900, fulfilling the 
American dream of becoming a very successful trader in the speculative 
markets of New York and Chicago.
His highly original mind singles him out as one of the 20th-century's 
investment giants. He was the first to apply other astronomical parameters in 
forecasting financial markets. He introduced a method of Horoscope analysis 
known as the Five Fold Horoscope and claimed that astrological progression of
the moon over the points of such a horoscope produced vibration in the price 
of a stock or commodity. 
His forecasts are documented in his Market Previews, and he published a total
of 8 books, all in English, and all on trading stocks and commodities: Time 
Factors in the Stock Market - 1933, Complete Course of Astrology - 1937, 
Bible Interpretation - 1937, Stock & Commodity Traders' Handbook of Trend 
Determination - 1940, Gold Nuggets for Stock & Commodity Traders - 1941, 
Egg of Columbus - 1942, Turning Four Hundred Years of Astrology to Practical
Use - 1943, George Wollsten - 1946).  
Stock & Commodity Traders Handbook of Trend Determination (1940) is an 
excellent introduction to the methods used by George Bayer. It lays the 
ground work principles in fairly simple terms which will assist in 
understanding his other works. Through George Wollsten, an invented hero, 
he presents a wide-ranging exploration of chart analysis enriched by a deep 
understanding of practical market operation. His imaginative account guides 
the reader through Wollsten's fictional existence, examining, explaining and 
putting into context each of his character's investment decisions or financial 
commitments. 
George Bayer (1940): Stock & Commodity Traders’ Hand-Book of Trend 
Determination. Secrets of Forecasting Values, Especially Commodities, 
Including Stocks [51p.]. This is Bayer’s latest work which is directly focused 
upon giving a set of clearly defined trading rules Fro traders to apply, using 
his astrological indicators and ellipse. Contents: The Foundation Upon Which 
We Build Our Rules of Forecasting Movements of Commodities & Stocks; 
Additional Fundamentals; What The Ancients Knew; Charts; Trading In 
Commodities; Astronomy For Traders; Rules For Trading In Wheat; Hides & 
Stocks; 11 Rules For Trading In Hides or Stocks; Rules For Cotton, Lard and 
Stocks. Declination, Heliocentric; Direct Motion of Planets; 80 Year Cycles; 
Rules and Use of Ellipse; Latitude & Longitude both Heliocentrically & 
Geocentrically; Speed Differentials of Planets; Right Ascension & Declination; 
Daily Variations; Motions of Mercury, Mars, Venus, & Saturn; Neptune; 
Perihelion and Appehelion; Conjunctions; Effects of Zodiacal Signs; Parallax; 
Retrograde Motion; Detailed Trading Rules Using These Principles. Rule #17, 
for instance, deals with Mercury at 15 Leo and 15 Aquarius: "Mercury reached 
15 Leo on August 7th, 1939. The positions of the other planets on that day 
were as follows: The Sun at 3 Virgo; Neptune at 22 Virgo; Uranus at 21 Taurus;
Saturn at 1 Taurus; Jupiter at 7 Aries; Mars at 24 Capricorn; Venus at 0 Virgo. 
Here is the rule: as Mercury keeps on going through the zodiac and passes the 
places of the other planets given above, we get changes of trend. The first 
place Mercury crosses is the Venus place at 0 Virgo which was on September 
7th, 1939, and was that a top! The next place Mercury meets is Neptune's 
place of 22 Virgo which occurred on October 19th, 1939. We had gone down 
before that day for five days as may be seen when consulting the wheat chart.
The immediate effect was one day run-up of 5 points! The next place is hit by 
Mercury on January 20th, 1940 which was a Sunday. It passed the old place of 
Mars, 24 Capricorn. The 19th, i.e. the Saturday, was a top."
George Bayer (1941): Gold Nuggets For Stock & Commodity Traders [69p.] 
This is a more philosophical presentation of Bayer’s vision of the markets and 
the science or art of Financial Market Forecasting. Rather than delineating 
sets of trading rules or explaining technical astrological processes, here he is 
explaining the foundations, sources and philosophy of his techniques and 
theories. It is an exceptionally interesting book, essential for understanding 
this “Paradigm” of Forecasting, as used by Gann, Bayer, Baumring and the 
like. And easier read than most of Bayer’s books more similar to “George 
Wollsten.”  
George Bayer (1939-40): Preview of Markets, Vol. I, Nos. 1-10.[120p.]. This 
collection contains 10 issues of Bayer’s Market Monthly News Letter, filled 
with market monthly analysis and forecasts of stock and commodity markets, 
as well as fascinating astrological, philosophical and cosmological articles and 
numerous diagrams. A rare and very important collection of Bayer’s thought. 
Contents: Relationship Between Hebrew Letters & Wheat Movements; When it
Rains, It Pours; How To Build a Trading System; Making Graphs for Stocks & 
Commodities; How A Trader Can Stay in Business; Grain Movements; 
Protecting Accounts; Many Thoughts Loosely Connected; Planetary Motions; 
Market Forecasts; New Discoveries; What Value Have Old Things?; Let’s Reveal
The Truth; Food For Thought Taken From 1001 Nights; Let’s have the Truth; 
We Live In A Funny World; Worth Knowing; Research Conclusions; Spend Your 
Own Money; Happiness, Health & Money; Planetary Motions In Relationship to 
Sun; Planetary Longitudes & Latitudes; Tops, Bottoms & Gaps; The Sun & 
Market Movements; Sun Cycles; About Bocaccio’s Decamerone; Who Made The
Latin Language?; About Commissions In Commodities; How To Lay Railroad 
Tracks in the Heavens; The 5-4 3-3 Method, Defining Tops & Bottoms With a 
Mechanical Device; Hints on How To Analyze An Individual Stock; About Al 
Koran of Mohammed; The Caterpillars In the Market.  
George Bayer (1946): George Wollsten: Expert Stock & Grain Trader [239 
p.]. A Very Entertaining Autobiographical Novel, Similar To Gann's Tunnel 
Through The Air, Developing Bayer's Theories of Financial Market Forecasting 
& Cosmology, In Story Form as He Discovered Them. Bayer Is The Most 
Important Forecasting Author After Gann, & This Is His Most Important Work! 
Contents: Economic Conditions in 1907; Grain Prices; Horticulture; 
Agricultural Year Book; Graphs & Plotting Commodity Prices; Old Books; 
Sepharial< Key To Market Operations; Silver Panic of 1893; George's Approach 
to the Markets; George's Analysis of Market Movements; Dow Jones Averages; 
Caterpillar Movements; 2 & 1/2 "Time & Times & Half a Time"; Gaps in Price 
Structure; "Rattles of the Rattle Snake"; Cycles; Stories From Bible; & Year 
Indications; Astrology; American Ephemerous & Nautical Almanac; Charts of 
Planets' Paths; Degrees of Motion; How To Plot Planets; Mercury Heliocentric 
Motion in Longitude; Deductions From Plotting Planets' Paths; A Major 
Discover - The Crossing of Saturn & Jupiter By Mercury & Market Turning 
Points; On Geocentric Positions of Planets; Heliocentric Planetary Positions; 
From Plutarch's Lives; Puzzles of Nature; George Goes to NY To Trade Stocks 
& Grains; The Ellipses; Herschel's Astronomy; The 71 Degree & 78 Degree 
Angles; The "Jiggle Line"; Puts & Calls; Bids & Offers; Discovery of the "Polish 
Ellipse"; Application of The "Polish Ellipse"; The Pit At Chicago; Saturn - Stock 
Movements; Wheat Movements; George The Astrologer; Final Adjustment of 
"Jiggle Line"; The 123 Degree Angle Within The Ellipse; General Rules on Bull 
& Bear Movements; Switching Wheat Options; On Hedging; Half-Way Points 
Between Jupiter & Saturn; Advanced Trading of Grains & Stocks; The Horse-
Whip; Squaring The Circle; Practical Rules on Trading Therefrom; Recognizing 
Adam & Eve & the Baby in Patterns; Shifting of Ellipses; Assortments of 
Stocks; Planetary Positions 1943-1947; Sample of the 5-4:3-3 Computation; 
The Six-Inch Ellipse With Half of Nine-Inch Inserted; The "Polish Ellipse" 
Showing bottom & Top Laying; Original Pattern Used To Discover The Squaring
of the Circle; Short & Quick Construction of Squaring of the Circle; Wheat 
Daily High & Low Range Charted for 1901-1911.
Since 1932 the author has published four books at intervals dealing with 
trading of Stocks and Commodities. Unfortunately, much of their contents had
been presented somewhat hard and difficult to the average man even to those
with a college education. This time the entire problem has been remodeled, 
many parts eliminated as too complicated, three new ideas added which so 
far had never been alluded to anywhere. It is those three ways which are 
bound to give confidence to any trader, that put him far ahead of all others 
who just buy or sell on statistics, economic or other bases. Everything brought
in this book is "home grown". The charts supplied for checking commitments 
as well as those produced with the aid of certain rules explained therein 
cover the period 1909-1911 inclusive. The previous books covered periods of 
1928 to 1944. Therefore a period of more than 30 years have been used to 
show that the rules work in any period, past or present; they should work in 
the future in the same way. Hints are given to delve into ancient books of the 
dark ages after the study of this book has been completed to discover that 
they all have been written on the same subject - cycles and time.
From The Synopsis: In rapid succession, to everybody's surprise, he (George) 
finds important rules for use in practical of wheat, as well as of stocks. Each 
trade commitment he explains carefully why he makes it, why he enters it 
and why he closes the deal at this time and at no other. Traders and 
Customers' Men are carefully analysed. Many mistakes by traders are brought 
forth how to avoid them. Two full years of trading are gone through. His 
original capital had increased from $750 to several thousand in spite of a few 
errors of judgement that were bound to creep in until rectified by additional 
useful rules discovered in the course of time. Among the unusual side issues 
he discovered how to square the circle, something that even the 
Encyclopaedias state is impossible. He shows how he did it. hile the story 
itself is interesting, the main subject "how to trade and avoid all the pitfalls 
of the Pit and of Wall Street" is developed slowly without complicated 
explanations. Everything is worked up naturally, just like the normal person 
would go about taking a walk up a mountain - to success in Wall Street and in 
the Pit. 
George Bayer (1944): Turning Four Hundred Years of Astrology To Practical 
Use & Other Matters [184 p.]. Numerous Diagrams. Bayer's Next Most 
Important Work After George Wollsten. An Important & Insightful Analysis & 
Synthesis of 400 Years of Astrological Tradition With An Intent Towards 
Application to the Financial Markets. Contents: Stars; Fixing Star Positions; 
Latitude & Longitude; Astronomers; 5-fold Horoscope; Prime Factors; Siderial 
Time; Midheaven & Ascendant; Radix Horoscope; Siderial Time; Pluto; 
Transits; Artificial & Natural Decans; Mundane Horoscope; Progressed Moon; 
Rotations of Planets; Transits Over Ascendant; Trend For Grease Wool; Stock 
& Wheat Horoscopes; Stock Market Horoscope; Uranus Tables; Mutual Aspects 
in Stock Horoscope; Planet Progressions; Forecasting Trends In Stock Market; 
Harmony of Leaders; Practical Application of 5-Fold Horoscope In Market; 
Wheat Horoscope; History How The Time Was Attained; Comparison of Stock 
& Wheat Horoscopes; Venus Transit Over Ascendant for Wheat; Ellipses; 
Advanced Astrology & Philosophy; Languages; Clefs in Music; Greek Alphabet; 
Adam & Eve; Bible; Commodities; Patterns In Price Charts; On Paracelsus. 
 
On page 128, for example, we read about Venus Transits Over Ascendant For 
Wheat:
"Check any year for which you may have a chart for wheat and see what 
happened when Venus in the sky passes the Ascendant of the January 2nd, 
1587 chart. If you use the 1941 chart and think clearly, you will find still a 
greater law right within this one which gives you nine times out of ten the 
actual direction wheat must take from the moment ephemeral Venus strikes 
22 degrees 4 minutes and 17 degrees 24 minutes of any sign. It will pay you to
work an entire year on this secret, although some may find it by just sizing up
the situation. 
 
Let us look at the 1940 Wheat Chart! Venus passes these critical Ascendant 
points 22 degrees 4 minutes and 17 degrees 24 minutes in that year on 
February 2nd, bottom; February 14th, Bottom; February 27th, intermediate 
Top; March 11th, Top; March 24th, Top; April 7th, bottom; April 22nd, 
extreme Top of the move; May 9th, (Wow! Top! Ready for the burst); July 1st,
Bottom Was this rule worth while to get my book to find out what the study of
Astrology can bring forth? Use this rule, of course, in conjunction with the 
progressed chart for Wheat the way I showed in the Wool example and you 
will produce astounding forecasts. 
George Bayer (1937): Bible Interpretation [120 p.]. With 55 Excellent 
Diagrams. Contents: Astrological Diagram Interpretation of Biblical Genesis; 
Longitude & Latitude; Ecliptic; Tree; Transits; Plotting Stock Charts; Diagrams
Of Earth, Heavens & Cosmos; The Node Man; Leaf Forms & Astrological Chart; 
Human Form & Chart; Astrological Calculator Diagrams; Biblical 
Interpretation; Noah's Ark; Zodiacal Diagrams; Ellipses.  
George Bayer (1942): The Egg Of Columbus or The Hidden Movements in 
Stocks & Commodities Markets. “The matter dealt with in this work is the 
hardest and most difficult subject anyone could touch. It attempts to explain 
the ways to make money in markets by the use of strange, natural, but true 
cycles. One old Greek text in my possession used 18 pages to cover the laws. 
And I try to condense the job down to the same size.” Includes 4 Charts & 
Diagrams. 
George Bayer (1937): "Money" Investing in Stocks, Trading In Commodities, 
Or The Time Factors In The Stock Market [73p.] Foldout Chart & Numerous 
Diagrams & Charts. This is one of Bayer's rare early courses containing the 
most detailed presentation of the method of applying the ellipse and 
astrological principles to the markets. Contents: Philosophical Thoughts; What
Do We Mean By Time?; About Religions; Motions In The Universe; Some 
Fundamentals Of Astronomy; Extension Of Astronomic Laws; The Stock 
Market, One Of The Minute Wheels Of The Universe; "Quack, Quack" About 
The Market; Biblical Interpretation; Market Vibrations; Mechanical Vs. 
Teleological Conceptions Of Market; Solar Energetic Forces; Planetary Forces; 
Astrological Methods & Applications; Gap Indications; Point Of Rotation; Force
Intensity; Bayer Ellipse; Quadrature Of The Circle; Ellipse Method #3; Detailed
Discussion Of Uses Of Ellipses & Controlling Circles; Construction Of Ellipse In 
Market; Conic Sections; Astrological Proofs From Bible; Tribes & Time Cycles; 
Angle Method #4; Method #5: Planetary Influences On Numbers; House 
Rulerships; Quadrants; Table Of Planetary Numbers; Planetary Stock Numbers;
Attraction & Repulsion Of Planets; Detecting The Changes Of Trend By Means 
Of Critical Degrees; Wheat Examples. Bayer's Services. 
George Bayer (1937): A Complete Course In Astrology, Erection & 
Interpretation of Horoscopes As Well As For Stocks [37p.]. Numerous 
Detailed Diagrams This course on the application of astrological principles to 
the Stock Market. Very rare! Contents: Erection Of A Chart; Placing Planets In 
A Chart; Calculation Of Mundane Chart; Radix Mirrored Chart; Mundane 
Mirrored Chart; Progressed Chart; Interpretation Of The 5-Fold Horoscope; 
Weighing The Aspects; Rectification Of A Chart With Unknown Birthtime; 
Practical Application Of The Five-Fold Horoscope; Tables Of Planetary 
Positions; Rotation; Daily Progressions; Latitude & Longitude.  
