George Bayer 
(1937) 
Published in weekly serials of two pages each week with many 
illustrations. 
 
re-edited by omchi aka chistabo, a.d. 2019
 
Page 1 
RE-EDITOR’S NOTE 
the original downloaded file was modified heavily. the text has been left intact, but overall design changed significantly. 
illustrations from the end of the book have been inserted in appropriate place. All illustrations are re-drawn. original files 
(corrected printscreens) are at the end of this file, for reference. 
omchi, december a.d. 2019 
ABOUT THIS BOOK 
We bought our first copy of this book from a dealer in Chicago. It looked like a photocopy of a photocopy of a photocopy; it 
was difficult to read and there were numerous errors in spelling and punctuation. 
The book has been re-typed and is complete except for one word that we could not decipher. Some changes were made in 
punctuation and spelling for the sake of clarity, but the text remains largely as Mr. Bayer produced it. 
GENESIS 
Chapter 1 
VERSE 1: When we commonly speak of heaven and earth, we have to imagine that the heaven comprises everything that is 
beyond the earth proper. The heaven is represented with a circle and the earth with a dot in Figure # 1. We shall later see 
that God is the planet Mars. 
VERSE 2: Nothing was active so far; we find the spirit of Mars moving upon the waters. This spirit moves not in, but above 
the waters. The earth had no form so far; darkness was all around; we had also something that was deep. When speaking 
of the waters and the moving of a spirit upon the waters, we are able to distinguish a level of that water in form of a line. 
This line is drawn in Figure # 2 and begins at a point which we shall call Scorpio in the heaven and ends at a point which we 
shall call Taurus. Darkness necessarily must prevail above the waters and depth below the waters. The spirit of God is 
moving back and forth from Scorpio to Taurus. 
VERSE 3: We illustrate this verse in Figure # 3. We find that the upper half of our heaven becomes light and this is the only 
change that is brought about in verse 3. 
VERSE 4: We illustrate this verse in Figure # 4. We find that the heaven above the waters becomes the light and the heaven 
below the waters becomes the darkness. 
VERSE 5: The part of the heaven above the waters becomes day and the part below the waters becomes night. See Figure 
# 4. 
For the time being, we interpret the sentence “and the evening and the morning become the first day” as follows. The daily 
 
Page 2 
rotation of the earth around itself produces what we call day and night and both 
taken together we call “one day”. In this case the rotation of the point Scorpio from 
its position say at 12 noon around a circle and back to its place of beginning we call 
one day. It indicates that the point begins its motion in our Figure # 4, moves 
downward towards night and darkness, upward on the other side, passing the point 
which we marked in our Figure as Taurus, upward further, culminating, and 
returning to its point of beginning. The centre, our dot, seemingly remains 
stationary while the entire outside moves completely around this centre in one day. 
When we look at our Sun and Moon, we find this to be the case. They rise in the 
East, move seemingly upward in the heaven and set in the West within about one 
half day; the other half of the day they make their passage below the Earth, only 
to come back again to approximately the same spot the next morning. Such a rotation is called “one day” for the present. 
(Later on we shall see that “one day” is entirely something else). 
VERSE 6: This is illustrated in Figure # 5. The firmament is the Zodiac. In as much as the Zodiac begins with the first degree 
of Aries and not with Taurus or Scorpio, our picture must be adjusted so that on one side we have Aries and on the other 
side Libra. We have twelve such signs in this Zodiac. Here are the names and [ Page 1 end ] abbreviations of these Signs. 
 
Name 
Symbol 
Name 
Symbol 
Aries — Ram 
A 
Libra — Balance 
G 
Taurus — Bull 
B 
Scorpio — Scorpion 
H 
Gemini — Twins 
C 
Sagittarius — Archer 
I 
Cancer — Crab 
D 
Capricorn — Goat 
J 
Leo — Lion 
E 
Aquarius — Waterman 
K 
Virgo — Virgin 
F 
Pisces — Fishes 
L 
This is the correct rotation of the signs in the Zodiac. We have twelve of them. The 
English translation for these signs in their respective order is as follows: The Ram, the 
Bull, the Twins, the Crab, the Lion, the Virgin, the Scale, the Scorpion, the Centaur, the 
Goat, the Water Bearer, the Fishes. 
In as much as these signs are of equal length and a circle has 360°, each sign has 30°. 
The order of the signs never changes. In Figure # 5, we find the Zodiac with the signs 
in their proper sequence and in Figure # 5a we have the same Zodiac but inserted into 
the circle, which is the usual way of plotting it. The former is merely for illustration to 
bring about the idea that actually this Zodiac is an ellipse. It is the latter we shall 
constantly use. The imaginary centre point always represents the Earth. 
VERSE 7: Before going into this verse, we look closely at Figure # 5aa, which brings 
home the idea of the morning and the evening, showing also midnight and noon with 
 
Page 3 
their respective signs. Thereby morning is taken as equal to Spring (Sun at 0 Aries, 
Noon is taken as mid-summer (Sun entering Cancer), evening is taken as the Fall (Sun 
entering Libra), and Capricorn represents winter or mid-night, when the Sun is furthest 
to the south. We know from experience that during the Summer we have most daylight 
and when the Sun enters Capricorn we have the shortest day. 
In verse 7 we have three kinds of waters called seas in the firmament: Cancer, Scorpio 
and Pisces. The shaded portion of our Figure # 6 represents the three different kinds 
of waters and note that two are below the line Aries-Libra while the third is above it. 
VERSE 8: We note that the firmament, i.e. the Zodiac, is now called heaven. This Zodiac 
we must remember begins at 0° Aries. 
VERSE 9: The dry land appears now between the waters and extends from the end of 
Scorpio to the beginning of Pisces, or in other words, from 0 Sagittarius over to 0 
Pisces. It includes the entire signs of Sagittarius, Capricorn and Pisces. See Figure # 7. 
VERSE 10: The dry land is now called the Earth, and the gathering of the waters is called 
sea. This is very important and must be carefully retained. 
We now have to eliminate our original idea as given above that the Earth is in the centre 
and the Zodiac around it. This is not meant at all when the Bible talks about the Earth. 
What the Bible constantly and always means when speaking of the Earth is that sector 
of the Zodiac that comprises the signs Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius and nothing 
else. 
VERSE 11: This earth brings forth 1) grass 
 
2) herb yielding seed 
 
3) the fruit tree yielding fruit. 
[ Page 2 end ] 
Figure # 8 shows this division in detail. We simply divide the Earth into three parts 
called Sagittarius (grass), Capricorn (the herb yielding seed) and Aquarius (the fruit 
tree). Note that it does not say fruit trees (plural) but fruit tree (singular); there is 
only one, not several of them. 
VERSE 12: expresses the same thought as verse 11 and due to the great importance of verse 11 it is repeated in another 
form which we shall see occurs very often when the writer wants to bring out something specially strong. 
VERSE 13: We shall explain this verse when we add together all the seven days. 
VERSE 14 including VERSE 15: the lights, generally speaking, that God created in the firmament are the various planets. 
There are two kinds of lights; one kind is for the day, the other kind is for the night. They also have to give signs, or in other 
words, indications, information as to what shall happen. What shall happen refers to life in general, to persons, to countries, 
wars, famines, pests, earthquakes, upheavals, your own life, the life of wheat prices, stocks, plants, animals. They are to 
be for seasons such as the season to wear straw hats, to play marbles, to fly kites, to have festivals such as Easter, 
Christmas, other festivals such as carnivals, fairs, pageants, etc. 
They are to be for days and years. This means that these planets individually produce cycles of their own, such as a Venus 
cycle upon which special conditions depend, or a Saturn cycle upon which other, slower developing conditions depend. It 
has been my experience that for example the prices of wheat depend only upon the cycles of Mars and Venus and no other 
planet affects the prices of wheat. On the other hand, butter prices are only affected by the cycles of Venus and Jupiter. My 
own personal cycle is affected by Mercury and Saturn. We therefore must first of all, when doing some analyzing of persons, 
find out which planets (only two come in question) affect the person. The best way to define this is to check illnesses or 
times when one is indisposed. Look up carefully the angles formed by the various planets to each other, measure them 
exactly to the minute. We have the following important planets which must be checked from an ephemeris for the date in 
 
Page 4 
question: Sun to Mercury; Sun to Venus; Sun to Mars; Sun to Jupiter; Sun to Saturn; Sun to Uranus; Sun to Neptune. The next 
series are Mercury to Venus; Mercury to Mars; Mercury to Jupiter; Mercury to Saturn; Mercury to Uranus; Mercury to Neptune. 
The third series are Venus to Mars; Venus to Jupiter; Venus to Saturn; Venus to Uranus; Venus to Neptune. The fourth series 
are Mars to Jupiter; Mars to Saturn; Mars to Uranus; Mars to Neptune, 
The remaining series cannot be used for human lives because they develop too slowly and are only useful to figure wars, 
major events such as formations of states, eras, such as the age of electricity, the flying age, etc. 
When you test several cases of one and the same person, you will find that at times of important events, the two planets 
that “rule” him are at important angles to each other. My little cat, for example, responds to aspects between Venus and 
Saturn. The very day an aspect is due of 45°, 90°, or 150° that animal gets [ Page 3 ] sick on me and so sick that her end 
seems near. Two days after the aspect, however, she runs around as if never anything had happened to her. Stocks, wheat, 
cotton or other commodities do the same thing. They get sick spells and prices move down; they feel fine and prices move 
up. 
We have for example each year between Venus and Saturn aspects as follows: when both are together in longitude we have 
a conjunction or they are 0° apart in longitude. Then we find them 15° apart, 30°, 45°, 60°, 75°, 90°, 105°, 120°, 135°, 150°, 
180° apart which is called an opposition. When we pass five years, we have therefore passed through five cycles of Venus-
Saturn. We shall find for example that the 90° angle the first years was affecting the person very much to the bad; the 
second year that same 90° angle did not cause any disturbance; the third year we find that this angle brought about an 
event that was wonderful, and so on. We thus can distinguish the years mentioned in this verse when we realize that after 
a certain fixed period the rhythm of the events re-occur, i.e. if the first rhythm was bad - neutral - good, then after a series 
of 12, 15, 20 or more actual 90° angles have passed, we get an exact repetition of the effects of these events, although at 
the same time they may express themselves a little differently. To illustrate this better, I have found cycles or years of 
planets repeating in wheat prices which, while they bring about the changes very exactly from day to day, the price levels 
of the present compared to the past cycle may vary considerably. This is due to the slower moving planets which bring 
about the very large swings of changes in life. It is usually called the trend. For example, if one has had bad luck for a 
number of years and his intelligence and business acumen are good, at some time this streak of bad luck will change and 
he will begin to improve, first slowly, then faster and finally speed way ahead into a motion that in terms of Wall Street is 
called a bull market. However, during such a bull market, he will have his ups and downs according to the aspects of the 
two planets that fix his life. 
The meaning of “days” in VERSE 14 is therefore: the aspects of two planets to each other as they develop. The meaning of 
“year” is: a repetition of several of the previous cycles put into one cycle which as a rule extends a number of years. 
VERSE 15 puts the lights in the firmament of the heaven, which comprises, as we have 
found, the signs of Pisces, Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio. 
They shall give light upon the Earth. We know the Earth comprises the signs of 
Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius. 
Therefore, when doing checking of events we must pay special attention to the effect 
of the two ruling planets while they are passing through the earth instead of through 
the heaven, first when only one is in, secondly when both are in the earth. The effect 
of the two planets when they are in the heaven forming a 90° angle then is entirely 
different in case such a 90° angle is formed and one or the other is in the earth. Note 
that it is impossible for both to be in the earth and forma 90° angle, because the earth 
is only 90° long. 
VERSE 16: The greater light is Jupiter, our biggest planet; the lesser light is Saturn. 
Thus Jupiter rules the day and Saturn [ Page 4 ] rules the night. Nothing is said here 
about the Sun or Moon which as we shall later find out are quite unimportant. See 
Figure # 9. 
As we know from elementary astronomy, our own Earth is inclined to the Ecliptic or 
Zodiac at an angle of about 23 ½°. We therefore erect our heaven for the time being 
 
Page 5 
as shown in Figure # 10 until later when we shall find that entirely different points must 
be used. 
Figures # 9 and 10 are identical, with the only exception that we seemingly turn the 
heaven 23 ½° (in our drawing we move it 30° or one sign). 
Inasmuch as we have throughout the Bible to do with cycles, we must recognize that 
so far we have gone through four cycles. The first cycle was the creation of Day and 
Night; the second cycle was the creation of the Firmament (Zodiac); the third cycle was 
the creation of the seas and of the earth; the fourth cycle was the creation of the lights. 
The first cycle we call the Aries cycle, the second the Taurus cycle, the third the Gemini 
cycle, the fourth the Cancer cycle. 
”God created”, our verse 1, actually means: Mars passed through these cycles one after 
the other. Therefore, we can once more erect the heaven and see how far he has 
proceeded up to now. Figure # 11. 
VERSE 20: The moving creatures of the waters are: the Crab, the Scorpion and the Fishes, 
the three signs of the Zodiac defining the Seas. See Figure # 12. 
The fowl we see in the so-called airy signs: 
Gemini, Libra, Aquarius. See Figure # 13. 
Note that the distance from one sign to the other is equal and extends 120°. This is the 
case with the signs of the water animals, as well as with the signs of the fowl. 
It is very important to retain that these six things were created by the waters. 
VERSE 21: When we combine these six living things created by the waters into one 
heaven, as shown in Figure # 14, the remaining signs must necessarily turn out to be 
the whales. Therefore we find that the whales are Aries, Taurus, Leo, Virgo, Sagittarius 
and Capricorn. Note that two signs are always together and that there are three times 
two doubles. The whales are actually the nodes of the planets and the common 
astrological abbreviation is < . It must remind one of a whale, at least it has the form of 
one of those porpoises which the steamers meet in great quantities as they approach 
our Continent coming from Europe. 
Whenever a planet crosses the Ecliptic, it is said to be in its node. We know that a planet 
crosses the Ecliptic when coming from the north in order to go south and also when it 
comes from the south to go north. One is called the descending node, the other the 
ascending node. The movement spoken of just now is the motion of a planet in 
LATITUDE. Under LATITUDE we understand a motion of the planets to the north and to 
the south of the Ecliptic. It is expressed in degrees and minutes the same as longitude. 
In our Figure # 5 where we show the Zodiac, we may call the same also Ecliptic for our 
purpose. The planets move along this Ecliptic in a narrow, winding path within a belt 
extending about 6° on both sides, at the same time moving along in longitude from one 
sign to [ Page 5 ] the next, becoming occasionally retrograde, i.e. moving backward, 
against the order of the signs and then forward again, however, overwhelmingly 
forward. Whenever a planet actually crosses the plane of the Ecliptic, it has no latitude 
or we say its latitude is 0°. This point of crossing is called the node of the planet. The position of the node is different for 
each planet and the progression of the node is at a rate of about 46” per year for all planets except the Moon whose motion 
is about 3’ per day. All nodes have a retrograde motion in the Zodiac. The Sun, of course, has no node. 
We call ascending node a point in the Zodiac at which the planet crosses the Ecliptic coming from the Southern Latitude 
and moves upward into Northern Latitude; the descending node is the point where a planet crosses the Ecliptic when coming 
from the Northern Latitude and going into Southern Latitude. Figure # [ 16 ] 15. 
 
Page 6 
We imagine that we have three planes, one above the other; the middle 
plane represents the Ecliptic, the upper plane the limit of Northern 
Latitude and the lower plane the limit of southern Latitude. The space 
between Northern and Southern we call the belt within which the planet 
moves in Latitude. When we draw the path of the planet into the picture, 
Figure # 16, we note that this path crosses the Ecliptic at two opposite 
points and these points are called the Nodes. 
In Figure # 17 we show the Nodes in the heaven all alone and connect one 
with the other so as to obtain a suitable picture that can be easily retained 
in your mind. 
VERSE 22: We note that the great whales and every living creature that moveth which the waters brought forth shall be 
fruitful and they shall multiply and they shall fill the waters in the seas. These waters are Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. 
The fowl, Gemini, Libra and Aquarius shall multiply, however, in the earth. They therefore can only multiply in the signs of 
Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius and nowhere else. 
VERSE 23: We have a fifth day, Leo, to be entered as “living things in the waters”. 
VERSE 24: In the previous chapter or verse we had the things which the waters brought forth; now we have the things which 
the earth brings forth: 
1) the cattle (see Figure # 18) 
2) the creeping things (see Figure # 19) 
3) the beasts of the Earth after its kind (see Figure # 20) 
VERSE 25: The Cattle are therefore: 
1) Aries 
the Ram 
2) Taurus 
the Bull 
3) Leo 
the Lion 
4) Capricorn 
the Goat 
The creeping things are: 
1) Cancer 
the Crab 
2) Scorpio 
3) Pisces 
the Fishes 
The beasts of the Earth are: [ Page 6 ] 
1) Virgo 
the Virgin, or the woman 
2) Sagittarius the Archer, or the man 
We note that the Earth brings forth a substitute for the water animals, but it has no substitute for the fowl; thus, Gemini, 
Libra and Aquarius are exclusive products of the waters and they have no relationship to the Earth. 
VERSE 26: The division made for the beasts of the earth to be Virgo and Sagittarius is wrong. These ancient writers knew 
 
Page 7 
that many people would try very hard to connect the Bible with Astrology. Giving Virgo as a beast of the Earth sounds logical 
due to its name. Placing Capricorn among the cattle sounds good too. I was fooled with that for many months myself; later 
I found that this statement was made purposely wrong as will be later on fully shown. 
Capricorn only seemingly belongs to the cattle; it is the second 
beast of the Earth, i.e. the woman, while Sagittarius is man - 
Eve and Adam. 
VERSE 27: Therefore Capricorn is female, while Sagittarius is 
male. 
VERSE 28: They (Sagittarius and Capricorn) have dominion 
over: 
1) the fish of the sea; Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. 
2) the fowl of the air; Gemini, Libra and Aquarius. 
3) the cattle; Aries, Taurus, Leo. 
4) all the earth; Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius. 
5) the creeping things; Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces. 
6) we miss out on Virgo. This is unimportant and should be 
included and it was written that way so as to put people off the 
track. 
VERSE 29: As we have seen from Figure # 8, the herb bearing 
seed is Capricorn and the tree in which is the fruit of a tree 
yielding seed is Aquarius. This verse sounds as if the herb bearing seed was all over the Earth, 
i.e. in Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius. To them it shall be for meat. We do not know as yet 
what is meant by meat, but suffice to say that the Earth is only meat to them and not meat for 
any other such as Leo or Gemini. 
VERSE 30: But to them, i.e. beasts of the Earth 
 
fowl of the air 
 
things that creep 
only the green herb shall be meat: green herb is most likely meant to be grass (Figure # 8), i.e. 
Sagittarius. But note we miss Virgo once more. 
The remark “wherein there is life” may exclude the sign of Virgo because later on we shall find 
that Virgo has to do with stones (Genesis, Chapter 11, verse 3) and for this reason it may be 
considered as being lifeless. 
VERSE 31: The 6th day brings us an entry in Figure # 11 under the sign of Virgo (!!) Creation of 
Animals !! 
Figure # 21 shows the first six days of creation in shaded portions. We note that just one half of 
the circle is completed. We began with Aries and have now completed Virgo. In the next sign, 
Libra, we establish the equilibrium, Libra the Scales ... 
Figure # 22 is referring back to the Nodes whose abbreviation is <. It may have never occurred 
to you that this abbreviation is [ Page 7 ] cleverly chosen. Human beings are full of nodes. The 
question which planets are represented by these various nodes I have not defined as yet. From the 
analysis of the Tabernacle built by Moses which we meet in due time, it appears that the node 
representing the legs is that of Jupiter; the node representing the arms is that of Venus and the node 
representing the head is that of Mars. However, the other nodes of the body cannot be defined so far, 
but as we advance in our study, either myself or one of the students may accidentally hit upon the 
solution. As we go further and locate the laws which cause stocks, wheat, cotton, etc. to change direction 
on absolute pre-determinable dates, details such as these become quite unimportant, however 
 
Page 8 
interesting they are to medical students. 
Figure # 23 reveals the back side of the human body as a node. We therefore can count eight distinct nodes on the human 
body; one of the nodes is reversible depending upon the sex of the male of female individual. 
All these nodes are again encompassed within a Zodiac of its own as shown by the dotted line surrounding them; see Figure 
# 5 for comparison. When making the comparison, you have to place the sign of Aries at the head of the human body. This 
will bring different signs to the right hand and left hand, to the right foot and to the left foot. Therefore the right foot has 
very little in common with the left foot, belonging to a different sign altogether. They just happen to be neighbours. Left 
and right foot are about in sextile aspect to each other, while left hand to right hand are about in a 150° angle to each oth er 
or rather in a 210° angle because we should measure via the head. Of course, when we consider that the limbs are part of 
the node of one certain planet, the rising node against the descending node, they have their affinity in that node. But, we 
are anticipating things here that belong much further back. 
End of Chapter One. 
CHAPTER TWO 
VERSE 1: We find herein two fine distinctions: 
1) we can take the heavens as encompassing the arc Aries-Virgo. 
2) the earth, the arc Sagittarius-Aquarius. 
or, we may say: Heaven is above: Aries-Libra 
Earth is below : Libra-Aries. 
“And all the host of them”: host we may just as well call “ghost”, meaning also “guest”. It represents the planets that move 
therein like ghosts. We have only two defined so far: Jupiter and Saturn. The former rules “above”; the latter, “below”. As 
we shall find later, God is turning out to be Mars, and the four remaining planets - Sun, Venus, Mercury and Moon - are mere 
assistants and therefore of little importance at least for the major things we are talking about in the first books of the Bible. 
VERSE 2: The 7th day; our sign Libra represents the Day of Rest. We note now that one sign of the Zodiac determines one 
day. This is only to be for major matters; we shall later on define “a day” in the Bible very much differently. [ Page 8 ] 
VERSES 3 and 4: The 7th day was sanctified and blessed. He (Mars) rested in it; this means he stopped in the middle of Libra 
at 15°. Stopping means stationary, whereby from a forward motion the planet became retrograde, i.e. goes backward. Thus 
we discover here a very important cycle; whenever it happens that Mars in his journey through the Zodiac becomes 
stationary at 15° of Libra or very close to this point, an important major cycle ends there. 
15° Aries is just above 15° Libra. Figure # 24 shows us the new construction of heaven and 
earth, such as we shall later use when we construct the Tabernacle of Moses. Note in that 
Figure the earth and its position, the two seas in blue, the heaven in red and the equilibrium 
in white, Libra. We find 15° Aries at the top and at the time of the Flood we shall find 0° 
Taurus in its place. 
VERSES 4 and 5: They belong together and we find here for the first time the word “field” 
which represents in this case Sagittarius and Capricorn. Nothing is said of a field wherein the 
fruit tree grows. 
We must bear in mind that God is still at 15° Libra, but in 
VERSE 6 he continues on his journey. “A mist went up from the earth”. This means from Sagittarius upward (to the left, i.e. 
contrary to the order of signs). It settled therefore in Scorpio. Mist is some form of water; Scorpio, a sea, is water. This mist 
watered the whole face of the ground, i.e. Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius. 
VERSE 7: The next step was the formation of man out of the dust of the ground, i.e. out of Sagittarius. “And he breathed 
into his nostrils the breath of life”, Figure # 25. According to our picture, we find that the right nostril extends approximately 
from 2° to 13° Sagittarius, while the left one extends from 17° to 28° Sagittarius. The breath ing must have been done 
 
Page 9 
through the right nostril. “And man became a living soul” means: the sign of Sagittarius 
has now become active, just the same as the sign of Scorpio became active through the 
mist. In the picture we are not going to analyze now the other parts of the head as shown 
in the picture; they are merely inserted to convey the general idea of the nostrils. 
VERSE 8: In this verse, we jump over into Aquarius, skipping temporarily the sign of 
Capricorn. Thus the Garden of Eden is Aquarius in the close meaning; in the wider meaning 
it comprises the earth, i.e. Sagittarius to Aquarius and even includes Pisces as we shall 
find very soon. God put Adam into the Garden of Eden. 
VERSE 9: God grew four trees in the Garden of Eden: 
Tree # 1 is pleasant for sight 
 
# 2 is good for food 
 
# 3 the Tree of Life in the midst 
 
# 4 the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil 
Tree # 1 we place at the beginning of Eden, i.e. at 0° Aquarius 
Tree # 2 we place at its end, i.e. at 30° Aquarius 
Tree # 3 we place in the middle, i.e. at 15° Aquarius 
Tree # 4 appears to be either a pair of trees, one for good and one for evil; or, one 
tree, comprising the whole, i.e. 0° Aquarius to 0° Pisces (30° Aquarius). If we use 
the former, we get the Tree [ Page 9 ] of knowledge for good at 7° 30’ Aquarius 
and Tree of Knowledge for bad at 22° 30' Aquarius. If we use the idea of the whole, 
then knowledge as such depends entirely upon the condition of the sign of Aquarius 
in anybody's chart or nativity. This means we must check the planets contained in 
Aquarius, the angles planets outside of Aquarius cast towards the Tree of Life, i.e. 
towards 15° Aquarius, towards the tree of food, 30° Aquarius, towards the tree that 
is pleasant for sight, i.e. 0° Aquarius. For example, Mercury found at 25° of Taurus 
in some nativity would cast a 100° angle towards the Tree of Life, an 85° angle 
towards the tree of food and a 115° angle towards the tree that is pleasant for 
sight. This same procedure must be used with all the planets and carefully noted 
for later use. 
We therefore must recognize that the sign of Aquarius is the only source to 
discover someone’s intelligence. 
VERSE 10: The river that went out of Eden (Aquarius) ran right into the next sign, 
Pisces, and split into four parts. Thus we divide the sign Pisces into four parts, each 
one 7° 30' long; Figure # 28. The river Pison flows around the land of Hevilah which 
is therefore from 0° to 7° 30’ Pisces; in this land we find 
VERSE 11:  1) its gold is wood 
VERSE 12:  2) bdellium is there 
 
3) onyx stone is there. 
Gold means the Sun; thus the Sun found within 0° and 7° 30’ Pisces is good. Onyx 
stone is most likely Saturn; meaning that Saturn found in some nativity between 
0° and 7° 30' Aquarius is very good. Bdellium we do not know yet what it means; 
we know, however, that a planet is meant by it and therefore it must represent one 
of the planets we have not placed so far - Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter. We never 
have to worry about Neptune or Uranus, nor the new discovery, Pluto, because 
they are never considered. We have to keep close watch whenever there is a talk 
about Bdellium later on to try and locate the planet that is meant by it and then 
come back to this verse and insert its name. 
VERSE 13: Ethiopia, the Negro country, comprises 7° 30‘ to 15° Pisces. In Numerus 
Chapter 12, verse 1, we shall find that Mose (Mercury) married an Ethiopian 
woman. The river Gihon flows around Ethiopia. 
 
Page 10 
VERSE 14: The third river, Hiddekel which goes towards Assyria. Therefore we have Hiddekel encompassing the sector 15° 
to 22° 30° Pisces and easterly of it we must find Assyria, which Assyria must consequently be 22° 30' to 30 Pisces (i.e. 0° 
Aries). 
The fourth river is called Euphrates; see Figure 28a. 
We have now passed through all the twelve signs except through the sign of Capricorn. This one was passed to make the 
story more readable, or as I suspect, to side-track the nosy public who might try to delve into the secrets of the Bible. 
VERSES 15 and 16: Man is now in Aquarius and was commanded to eat freely of every tree, except of the Tree of Knowledge 
of Good and Evil, else he die. In our Figure # 27, we placed two trees of knowledge into the Garden which is obviously 
incorrect, because we again find only one mentioned here; the additional difficulty we [ Page 10 ] meet is in that we find 
that the Tree of Knowledge is also placed into the middle and it would appear that the Tree of Life is identical with the Tree 
of Knowledge, which it is not. Still further on, Genesis Chapter 3, verse 22, we find that he only has taken from the Tree of 
Knowledge and not from the Tree of Life. Our second assumption must be the right one: the Tree of Knowledge comprises 
the whale of Aquarius and Adam gets into trouble when he moves out of Aquarius. We shall later find that Adam is Mars, 
and when Mars therefore leaves Aquarius he dies in his cycle and a new cycle begins. Death therefore in the Bible means: 
the end of one cycle and the beginning of a new one (VERSE 17). This last sentence is one of THE MAJOR LAWS contained 
in the Bible. 
VERSE 18: This verse alludes to fill the gap left open by making a help meet for man. Coming back for a moment to VERSE 
16, we note that the instructions about what to eat and what not to eat was given by God to Adam at a time when there 
was no Eve as yet and therefore it appears that the law applies to Adam primarily all alone, i.e. to Mars, respectively to the 
sign of Sagittarius ! 
VERSES 19 and 20: Adam was to give names to all the cattle, to the fowl and to the beasts of the field; this means the 
division of the Zodiac and the names as we use for them are invented by man, by scientists who have devoted their lives to 
this study. This statement is actually not in the proper place, but is used to lead the reader over to what the writer actually 
wants to clarify in the next verse: the creation of Capricorn, or the Woman, Eve. 
VERSE 21: The deep sleep that fell upon Adam means: Mars, Adam, could not go back in his 
cycle; thus he passed along through the Zodiac without any action via Aries, Taurus, Gemini, 
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, until he reached again his own sign, Sagittarius. In Figure 
# 29, we find that Adam, Mars, man, originally encompassed two full signs, Sagittarius and 
Capricorn. But, in as much as we have to do with two signs of 30° each in length, there was 
actually a rib between them, the rib of 0° Capricorn. So God took away that rib and closed 
the place with flesh. Therefore we have no distinguishing mark between the signs Sagittarius 
and Capricorn such as we have between all the other signs; all is flesh from 0° Sagittarius to 
0° Aquarius, or for fully 60°. 
VERSE 22: This verse is very difficult to explain and what I state herewith as solution we must 
verify later with actual facts. 
Capricorn I know is Mercury; Mars took the rib from man, i.e. from Mars again and made that 
rib into a woman and this woman he brought unto the man. Thus Mercury is part of the time 
a man and part of the time a woman. Whenever Mercury enters the sign of Capricorn she 
becomes a woman and remains to be a woman as long as she approaches Mars. The moment 
it meets Mars somewhere by conjunction after having left 0° Capricorn, she automatically 
returns to become again a man. Mercury therefore has a dual form of life. Therefore, 
Mercury, after its conjunction with Mars somewhere in the Zodiac, becomes again a man until 
it reaches 0° Capricorn once more. 
Kindly study this phenomenon closely; it is of the utmost importance for later use. [ Page 11 ] 
VERSE 23: The word “now” leaves the question open: what was it before ? I believe I gave the true answer just previously 
 
Page 11 
in Verse 22. The same dual sex might be true with the sign of Capricorn and thus the cause or reason for ski pping it in the 
previous text. It is understandable now also why Adam could walk from Sagittarius right into the Garden of Eden, Aquarius 
!! 
In Chapter 1, verse 26, God (Mars) made man (Mars) in his image, after his likeness. Mercury represents the female Mars ! 
VERSE 24: Under “man” in this sense I understand: Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. Each one of them, after leaving his father 
(Sagittarius) and mother (Capricorn) shall cleave unto his wife, whoever she might be (Sun, Venus or Mercury as we shall 
later see) especially though: Mars and Mercury, and they shall be one flesh, i.e. in that case, or thereafter Sagittarius and 
Capricorn shall be one sign. 
VERSE 25: Each one began his cycle at that time. This verse also prepares the ground for Chapter 3, verse 10. “Not ashamed” 
means virgin cycle, first cycle. 
CHAPTER 3 
VERSE 1: After the creation of the woman, Adam seems to have proceeded with Mercury into the Garden of Eden again. We 
must realize that it takes Mars about two years to get around the Zodiac. Therefore, the time elapsed between Chapter 2, 
verse 16-17 until Chapter 3, verse 1, consumed about two years in our usual time measure. We recognized already in a 
previous verse the beasts of the field: one beast is man, Mars, Sagittarius 
 
second beast is woman, Mercury, Capricorn; now 
 
the third beast is the Serpent, Aquarius, Saturn. 
The symbol for Aquarius points itself towards the serpent. The entire field again represents the Earth. 
Any conference entered in the Bible between two persons means either a conjunction of the two or an opposition. In this 
case, the serpent talks to the woman: i.e. Saturn is at that moment conjunction Mercury. We know Mercury is faster in 
motion than Mars, explaining the fact that Mercury talked first with Saturn. The strange feature we note is the question 
Saturn puts to Mercury in regards to what “ye” shall eat. 
VERSE 2: The woman answers him with “we”. How did she know about it ? She just was born one sign previously and as a 
full grown woman besides, not as an infant !! We may eat of the fruit (singular !) of trees of the Garden, but not of the tree 
that is in the midst of the Garden which is 15° Aquarius. Looking back to Chapter 2, verse 9, we note that the Tree of Life 
was in the midst of the Garden, i.e. at 15° Aquarius; in Chapter 2, verse 17, it is called the Tree of Knowledge, however, 
which is quite different from what can be deduced from verse 9. 
At any rate, they shall not touch it even, lest they die. This means, they cannot get into conjunction with 15° Aquarius, else 
their cycle ends. A little further up, we tried to establish the fact that they cannot go beyond 30° Aquarius lest they die. This 
is contradictory and we therefore must attempt to test both [ Page 12 ] values, 15° Aquarius and 30° Aquarius on hand of 
movements of stocks, of wheat or cotton and see what happens when Mars or Venus become conjunct, i.e. transit these 
two points. For that work we just consult our current ephemerides and see what happens the day Mars or Mercury transits 
these points. To verify we have to make ourselves so-called line charts, using paper of Keuffel & Esser, # 358-143L in which 
chart we enter daily the high and low price of each commodity or stock we wish to check, by using the square as 1¢ or $1.00 
or 10 points, depending upon what we plot. After a certain period, we shall be able to recognize an actual picture produced 
by the constant addition of one line a day, that connects the high and low price each day. Now, on the days in question 
some unusual movement must occur if our law should prove itself. 
From this verse we deduce: whenever Mars or Mercury reach 15° 0’ Aquarius, they die in their cycle. Thus, they never live 
to see the other half of Aquarius. We shall find many such sensitive spots in the Zodiac where deaths occur and new cycles 
begin with all sorts of planets. This explanation takes care of Verse 3. 
VERSE 4: In as much as the serpent finds time to talk back to Mercury, we must assume that Mercury was moving very 
slowly. It may even be assumed that just before coming to 15° Aquarius, Mercury met Saturn, became stationary right after 
 
Page 12 
without reaching 15° Aquarius and then turned retrograde (backward), moving again 
towards the serpent, Saturn, which in itself moves very slowly. It therefore seems that 
whoever does the talking in the Bible is actually approaching another planet. The one that 
approached must be moving faster than the one he talks to. This idea we have to test, 
though. Figure # 30: Eve, the faster moving planet talks to the serpent; Adam close 
behind Eve. 
VERSE 5: We note that it says: ye shall be as Gods: plural form is used, thus Mars must 
have been in hearing distance of the serpent. On the other hand, we note that Adam did 
no talking at all. The whole gossip was made by Eve. That they recognize good and evil is 
in harmony with verse 17 of the previous chapter. 
Up to the present, it is not stated that the Tree of Knowledge is equal to the Tree of Life, 
but in verse 3 we find that it is also in “the midst”. The question arises, therefore, are 
there two midsts or are the places identical ? We see in Chapter 2, verse 10 that a river 
went out of the Garden of Eden to water the Garden. Therefore the sign of Pisces is a part 
of the Garden and we must say the Garden proper is Aquarius; the waters of the Garden 
are in Pisces. We have here the same phenomenon as between Sagittarius and Capricorn. 
Man of Sagittarius equals the dry part of the Garden, while Eve of Capricorn equals the 
watery part of the Garden. Figure # 31. 
VERSE 6: This verse brings us a somewhat different picture. Therein we discover that 
there were only two trees in the entire garden; one was at 15° Aquarius and this 
specific one is 
1) good for food 
2) pleasant to the eyes 
3) it makes one wise. 
The other tree, which is at 15° Pisces, is the Tree of Life. Therefore we have to change 
Figure # 31 into Figure # 32 and forget [ Page 13 ] about Figure # 31 completely. It 
was used to bring about the final but right conception. That this is correct we shall see 
presently because we shall find soon Cherubs at 30° Pisces (0° Aries) as posts, and we 
cannot very well afford to have a tree at that place. Finally, she did eat of the fruit: 
Mercury at 15° Aquarius; she gave Adam of it; Adam also became conjunction to 15° 
Aquarius. He also did eat. Whether there is any meaning to the special stress: she did 
eat and he did eat, is not clear so far. We may discover a meaning soon. 
VERSE 7: We note that the eyes of both were opened and they knew; this was due to its 
being the Tree of Knowledge; and they ate: it must logically also be the Tree of food. 
The eye-opening episode requires us to make a picture of their present position at 15° 
Aquarius, Figure # 33. The next picture, # 33a, we show the Fig leaf that grew out of 15° 
Aquarius. The picture is rather crude, but it answers our purpose. In Figure # 33b, we 
superimpose one above the other by just denoting the points in the Zodiac where they 
touch the periphery. First of all, we see the aprons now, although both aprons fall into 
one single apron due to the fact that both are at the same place (Adam and Eve at 15° 
Aquarius). 
The sentence “they sewed fig leaves together” may temporarily bring forth the idea that one was standing opposite each 
other, i.e. Adam at 15° Aquarius and Eve at 15° Leo, or vice-verse. This may be so and it may not be so. We are sure, of 
course, that it was either a conjunction or an opposition, but we do not have to worry about this just yet; we shall have 
many cases upon which to rectify the conception if necessary later. 
VERSE 8: They heard a “voice walking”. God being Mars and also Adam being Mars, this simply is an identification of having 
to do with one and the same person at one place, which person is walking. I consider this a very clever piece of work to 
 
Page 13 
cover up a second, imaginary person wherein the first person is actually 
meant. 
It happened in the cool of the day. The time was therefore either 
morning or evening. This statement, I believe, is just brought forth to 
get some of the searchers off the track, by insinuating it may be the Sun 
which it is not. The balance of the statement is story because we just 
established the fact that there were only two trees. 
Note, that there is never a question about an apple tree or such 
nonsense as you hear once in a while. 
VERSE 9: This again is very clever; we find many times later on such 
statements when we have to look for persons or cities or altars. The 
word “him” should have been “himself”. 
VERSE 10: He was hiding himself means: he was just then under the Tree 
of Knowledge, hiding behind 15° Aquarius. 
VERSE 11: The woman gave me off the tree means: Mercury was first to 
reach 15° Aquarius. 
VERSE 12: I did eat means: finally I reached also 15° Aquarius. 
VERSE 13: Saturn beguiled me (Mercury) and I did eat. Each one admits 
separately this fact. It appears thus that we do not have [ Page 14 ] a 
conjunction between Mercury and Mars exactly at 15° Aquarius but a little 
distance away. No doubt this fact must be important, else it would not be 
stressed through several verses. 
VERSE 14: Mars # 1 begins to talk now to the serpent: 
thou are cursed  1) above the Cattle 
2) above every beast of the field. 
Figure # 34 shows the combination. Our Figure # 16 shows the Cattle and 
Figure # 20 shows the beasts of which we have eliminated Virgo and 
substituted Capricorn. 
Our Figure # 3 shows that Aries is morning or East, Cancer is noon or 
South, Libra is West or evening and Capricorn is midnight or North. 
Aquarius is therefore at the northernmost end, explaining somewhat the 
meaning: to be cursed “above” all cattle and above all beasts. 
“Upon they belly shalt thou go” is pointing to the abbreviation of the sign 
Aquarius, wavy lines; I call them “the jitters” because sometimes the action 
of Saturn, respectively of the sign of Aquarius, is liable to really give you 
“the jitters”. The natural movement of a serpent is in wavy lines. 
“Dust shalt thou eat” refers to the sign's position, being in the earth, together with Sagittarius and Capricorn. Note that the 
same story treats exclusively the three planets of the earth: Mars-Mercury-Saturn, and the scene is in the middle of 
Aquarius under the Tree of Knowledge. We also must note that so far no other planet appeared in the picture and th at our 
motion started with 0° Sagittarius. 
Mars, in the form of the Lord, made his round beginning at 0° Aries and landed at 0° Sagittarius when he made a double, 
his image at that point. This double seemingly travelled around the Zodiac completely and all alone until he obtained the 
help meet at Capricorn. Thus, the original motion of the Lord was 240° from 0° Aries to 0° Sagittarius, followed by a new 
 
Page 14 
motion under a new name (a new cycle) that began at 0° Sagittarius and 
ended at 0° Capricorn which measured 390°. This makes all told up to the 
time of the creation of Mercury 630°. From then on until we come to 15° 
Aquarius, Mars and Mercury moved around an extra 45° and Saturn, the 
serpent, was laying for them at 15° Aquarius. 
We may group them now as to their ages: Mars, the eldest; Mercury the 
female Mars, the next; Saturn the youngest of the three. This is, of course, 
contrary to all common knowledge, but here it is stated to be so and I do not 
doubt the Bible in the least. Therefore we have so far no Sun, no Venus, and 
no Jupiter, unless we think of “the lights” when we found Jupiter as being the 
light of the day. 
“All the days of thy life” means: leave Saturn in Aquarius and do not try to 
put him in some other sign. 
VERSE 15: Capricorn and Aquarius are enemies; thus Saturn and Mercury are 
enemies. The same is true between Saturn's seed and Mercury's seed. This is very 
important for later work. Aspects between Saturn and Mercury are unfavourable 
(word indecipherable) to the location of the seed of each of them. We have to be 
satisfied so far (until we find the other laws) to accept the idea of “seed” as being 
the next following sign. With Saturn (Aquarius) we thus use Pisces as being the next 
sign, the seed of Aquarius. [ Page 15 ] But, with Mercury (Capricorn) we cannot say 
the next sign because it would be the enemy. Let us assume for the time being that 
the seed of Capricorn is one sign backward, i.e. Sagittarius. 
“It shall bruise thy head” and “thou shalt bruise his heel” is rather complicated to explain, 
but with a drawing it is mighty simple. As we shall see in Genesis Chapter 49, verse 33, a 
man alive has his foot apart, but when dead his feet are closed. The stretch between the 
foot is always 30°. Thus a man with his head in 0° Sagittarius has one foot (heel of the 
foot) at 15° Taurus (the right foot) and the left foot at 15° Gemini; Figure # 36. The full 
length of his arms is 105° and the arm actually begins 30° before the head and ends 75° 
of the other side of the head. This, of course, on both sides. See Figure # 37. When the 
man is dead, he is seemingly just an empty spoke of the wheel; Figure # 35: 0° Sagittarius 
- 0° Gemini. 
“It”, the seed, shall bruise thy hand; therefore we have to look at the arm of Sagittarius 
(the seed of Mercury or Capricorn) and see where it swings to. From Figure # 39, we note 
that the right arm swings over to 15° Aquarius, just barely missing the head of Saturn. “Thou”, Saturn, shalt bruise his heel, 
i.e. the heel of his own seed, Pisces. Looking at our picture, we note that the two heels, Pisces’ right heel and Saturn's left 
heel meet against each other at 15° Leo. Figure # 38 just shows Capricorn and Aquarius standing together; however, we 
cannot use their picture in this case, because it speaks only of their seed. 
VERSE 16: I, “Mars”, will multiply thy sorrow 
and I will multiply thy conception. 
The German text is much better; it says, I will cause you great pain when you 
are pregnant (while you are); with pain shalt though bring forth a child; your 
will shall be subject to your husband and he shall be your ruler. 
Now this sounds better and can be understood. We shall discover that when a 
female planet becomes pregnant, a certain time will elapse until she brings 
forth the child. During this time Mars is very pernicious towards Mercury and 
evil towards it (in aspects). 
 
Page 15 
Next rule shown in this is: whenever you judge Mercury, look for Mars, 
because Mars has her under his will. Therefore any astrology book which 
enumerates rules for Mercury is useless because Mercury actually can do 
nothing without Mars. 
Another rule we can deduce from this is: the sign of Capricorn rules 
nothing; it is ruled by Sagittarius, i.e. by Mars via his wife, Mercury. 
VERSE 17: The Lord says to Adam (Mars says to Mars himself): cursed by 
thy ground, i.e. the sign of Sagittarius. This means that during the 
passage of Mars through Sagittarius, i.e. in 1937 from August 9th to 
October 1st, very little will grow, thus we have to expect higher prices of 
products that come from the soil during this period and even beyond. My 
forecasts, both for cotton and wheat as checked just now, show rising 
prices during this period and beyond. When we consider the Sun for a 
moment, we know that he passes through Sagittarius each year from 
November 22nd to December 22nd, a period that surely does not bring 
forth much grass. Of course, the Sun is not meant here at all and please 
do not refer [ Page 16 ] this statement as meaning the Sun; Mars is 
meant. 
There is another view possible. The verse may mean that nothing shall 
grow during the “Adam” cycle, i.e. as long as Mr. Adam is alive. 
VERSE 18: He (Mars) shall eat the herb of the field. Herb we have seen 
is Capricorn. He shall eat bread with the sweat of his face until he 
returned again to the ground, i.e. till he comes back into Sagittarius. 
This implies that there actually should be a famine for about two years; 
it takes Mars two years to get around the Zodiac. This seems to be true 
during the years when Saturn is in Aquarius, and Mercury and Mars 
meet at 15° Aquarius (serpent story). Thus we can distinguish a minor 
cycle (transit of Mars through Sagittarius) and a major cycle, serpent 
story until Mars comes back into Sagittarius two years later. 
Mars is dust, i.e. earth of Sagittarius and he shall return to dust, i.e. again to the earth, Sagittarius, which completes 
evidently then just one cycle or his own “Adam cycle”. 
The expression “in the sweat of thy face” can be construed that he will eat bread while in the sign of Gemini which is opposite 
his own sign. All we have to do is construct the man in the Zodiac and note that when Mars is in Gemini he actually looks at 
his own face which is opposite Gemini. The meaning of sweat I seemingly cannot explain. 
VERSE 20: Capricorn is the mother of all living; thus Mercury is the mother of all living. This must be specially retained. 
VERSE 21: The coats of skin we shall see from Exodus Chapter 25, verse 3, are: for Eve a coat of goat's hair; for Adam, a 
ram's skin dyed red. This really should mean: Picture these two constantly thus: Mercury with the goat’s hair coat and Mars 
always with the coat of ram's skin dyed red and you will always be able to keep them apart so that you don't make any 
errors. 
VERSE 22: Mars said to the little Mars: You, Mars, are now one like us, i.e. grown up evidently, because the conjunction Mars-
Mercury at 15° Aquarius may have made him mature (marriage 7). He now knows what is good and bad. This virtue seems 
to be only acquired the moment a planet passes 15° Aquarius and therefore we must deduce that a son or daughter born 
on the other side of 15° Aquarius is immature through practically a whole cycle (depending upon the birth place) until finally 
when reaching 15° Aquarius it becomes mature. 
Thus, in order to avoid that, he reaches forth with his hand (see Figure # 39 again) which so far only reaches up to 15° 
 
Page 16 
Aquarius, he, as he proceeds in motion will in time also reach over to 15° Pisces, the Tree of Life and he would live for ever, 
thus the Lord chased him out of Eden. 
VERSE 23: He must have chased him via Pisces, Aries etc. so that he could now make his round through the Zodiac and land 
again over in the field, in Sagittarius where he is supposed to till the ground. This also implies the following idea: Mars is 
sent out on the road though the Zodiac to “till the ground’, i.e. to bring about the various events on this earth through 
coming into aspects with other planets. [ Page 17 ] 
VERSE 24: He placed 2 guardian at the East of the Garden of Eden, the Cherubim, which, incidentally is again Mars. The 
flame is Mars, “of a sword” means Mars, which turned every way, because Mars is God. This latter expression may imply 
something yet which must be searched later on. 
“Turned every way” could mean Mars aspects are active in every direction, i.e. forward or backward when measuring from 
Mars, while aspects from other planets may only be measured in one direction, for example, only forward, but not backward. 
To illustrate better: for example Mars at 15° Aquarius and Jupiter at 15° Taurus. This would be a Mars square to Jupiter; 
however, not a square Jupiter to Mars, because Jupiter, according to this theory, would only be able to cast a square from 
15° Taurus to a planet which would be at 15° Leo, i.e. only forward. However, when measuring from Mars at 15° Aquarius, 
we would have a square to Jupiter at 15° Taurus and, suppose the Sun would be at 15° Scorpio, then Mars wou ld also cast 
a square to him (at the same time, though, the Sun would cast a square to Mars). 
This ends Chapter 3 of Genesis. So far the first cycle was rather uninteresting because the planets did no travelling so far.  
The only place where we stopped was at 15° Aquarius. No other interference was met. This soon will change when we come 
into the wanderings. We then shall stop at so many places in the Zodiac with the various planets. Others shall be born and 
matters become really interesting. 
CHAPTER 4 
When we try to locate a cycle that would give us Mars at 0° Sagittarius and Mercury at 0° Capricorn, furthermore their 
motion from then on should be such that both would reach about the same time 15° Aquarius and meet Saturn there too, 
and besides, Mercury should be retrograde about there, then we would have a true Adam cycle. Trying for it, w e run into 
big difficulties, because these cycles are very rare and far apart. The two nearest I have been able to find are: early January 
1894, when Mercury is at 0° Capricorn and Mars at 2° 50' Sagittarius, but Saturn was at that time way back in Libra w hich 
denotes that it cannot be that cycle at all. The next one very close is 1875, when Saturn passed through Aquarius, Mars at 
0° Sagittarius, but then Mercury is way off. 
There are possibly 500 or even 1000 such cycles passing before the right one repeats and each of these cycles is at least 
30 years of our time long, because it takes Saturn that long to get around the Zodiac. The observations of those ancient 
writers must have extended into several thousand of years successively and as we delve deeper into the subject you will 
be astonished what they know. 
We are sure that Mars was conjunct Mercury at 15° Aquarius with Saturn at the same place. The first birth could not have 
happened in Eden but it must have occurred beyond Eden. Adam knew Eve necessitated another conjunction. This could 
have happened in Aries, because when we consult the ephemeris in 1894 we find Mars early that year at 0° Sagittarius, 
remaining the whole year between [ Page 18 ] Sagittarius and Aries being retrograde a long time. This gave Mercury a 
chance to get around the Zodiac so as to make his next conjunction with Mars in the end degrees of Aries.  
VERSE 1: Cain was born and he was a man from the Lord. The German text (Luther's) however says: I have the man, the 
Lord. This is something else and it means that she bore a little Mars, and she evidently bore him in Aries indicating that 
Mars in Aries is of the Cain type. 
VERSE 2: She (Mercury) kept on moving and bore his brother, Abel. His brother is Jupiter. He was a shepherd, while Cain was 
a farmer. One, Jupiter, belongs into Aries, while the brother, Cain, belongs into Sagittarius (see later Jacob and Esau). In the 
second case we have twins while in this case we have one birth followed by the other. I shall use throughout the Germa n 
text because it is much better. 
 
Page 17 
VERSE 3: These two planets kept on rotating through the Zodiac; Cain 
(Mars) came into a position that he could bring an offering of the fruit of 
the ground. The only place where this could have happened when we 
construct our man into the Zodiac is at 15° Aquarius and nowhere else. 
We find then that the right hand of Mars reaches 0° Taurus which is the 
place of the Lord as we shall see in the story of the Deluge later. In as 
much as in the next verse (4) Jupiter also brings an offering unto the 
Lord he must have had his hand coming from the other side which also 
reaches 0° Taurus; ergo Jupiter was then at 15° Cancer. Both are 
therefore found in an angle of 150° to each other from Aquarius to 
Cancer. The Lord (Mars) liked Jupiter's gifts, but did not care much for 
his own. Figure # 40 a. (Check what happened in the markets when this 
constellation occurs). 
VERSE 6: Mars changes his behaviour at 15° Aquarius. Checking events 
in markets we note that every time Mars reaches 15° Aquarius we get 
an upmove in the markets. 
VERSE 7: This alludes to the sin again (Serpent story, showing that we are at the place). His (Jupiter's) desire shall be 
towards him (Mars) and you (Mars) shall rule over him. Therefore we have the following rule: Mars rules Jupiter. 
VERSE 8: Mars talked with Jupiter in the field (Sagittarius); therefore quite some time must have elapsed between this story 
and the one in the previous verse. We know it takes Jupiter one year to pass from one sign to the next and from Cancer to 
Sagittarius we have five signs to go; besides, not only Jupiter must be in Sagittarius but Mars as well. Furthermore, Mars 
must have been direct and Jupiter retrograde while this conjunction occurred because it says: Cain rose, i.e. went direct and 
furthermore he went against him which means the other had to be retrograde. These types of conjunctions are very rare 
and far between as a check will reveal. 
VERSE 9 and 10: Mars said Mars: Where is Jupiter ? “I am not his keeper”, he answers, because he is his ruler. “The voice of 
thy brother's blood cries to me from the earth”. First of all we are right to place this episode into Sagittarius, the earth. I 
cannot [ Page 19 ] explain the “of someone's blood”. 
VERSE 11: Here we hit onto a snag that must be clarified and changed accordingly. It says: the Earth opened its mouth. 
Looking at the earth Figure # 21, we may define the mouth of the earth just the centre between 0° Sagittarius and 0° Pisces 
which would give us 15° Capricorn. Furthermore it says: the earth has received the blood through your hands. When we 
construct hands so as to touch at 15° Capricorn, we must have Mars either at 0° Scorpio or at 0° Aries, because the arms 
are just 75° away from the head (the hands). This would therefore mean that the death of Abel occurred not in Sagittarius, 
but at 15° Capricorn, exactly opposite our place of offering (15° Cancer) and Mars was then at 0° Aries, which is the place 
of birth of both of them (successively). 
Thus the entire Cain and Abel story boils down to this: Mars and Jupiter are born successively in Aries. Jupiter offers at 15° 
Cancer and Mars offers at 15° Aquarius. They are 150° apart at this time. 
Mars is at 0° Aries again when he kills Jupiter who is at that time at 15° Capricorn. Thus ends one cycle. It is up to us to 
figure out how many rotations of each of these planets are needed to bring about the same original positions.  
VERSE 11 says further: You, Mars, you are cursed from the earth, you are no good if you are passing through the earth and 
furthermore, 
VERSE 12: from now on (since that cycle is completed; this does not apply to the previous cycle just discussed, which must 
be carefully searched in which cycle we are actually moving now !!) the earth shall not yield her strength to you. From now 
on (in this new cycle) you shall be a fugitive and a vagabond on the earth, meaning from 0° Sagittarius to 0° Pisces. This 
cycle evidently should end again when a new Cain and Abel are born again under a different name (see Moses and Aaron 
which represent the next cycle; also Jacob and Esau, the latter in a slight variation, being born as twins).  
 
Page 18 
VERSE 8 which was overlooked: Mars (the Lord !) ended the cycle of Jupiter by killing him. 
VERSE 13: Mars says to Mars (see Chapter 3, verse 9). 
VERSE 14: “this day” means a new cycle has just begun. 
VERSE 15: He who kills a Mars cycle shall be revenged seven-fold. The Lord made a sign on Mars so that nobody would kill 
him. I refer you to the sign of the cross which is always found through the Bible when it speaks about the Lord: Mars. 
VERSE 16: Mars went to live on the other side of Eden, towards the East in the Land of Nod, which must be Aries, possibly 
also the sector Aries to Cancer. 
VERSE 17: Mars saw his woman which must be Mercury again because this is the only planet we use so far and she bare 
Henoch. Note that this is now three times that Mercury bore a son. The first union Mars-Mercury produced a Mars; the 
second one a Jupiter and the third one is Henoch. In the genealogy that I bring now in the [ Page 20 ] illustration, we must 
use these births always one sign and then the following one, going around the Zodiac in this manner. In that production of 
lineage we must adhere strictly to the way it is produced and nothing can be overlooked else we get all wrong. The origin 
was Adam, Sagittarius, the next was Eve-Capricorn; the next was Cain-Aquarius; (Abel has nothing to do with the series); 
the next one is Henoch-Pisces; the next Irad-Aries; next Mehujael-Taurus; Methusaol-Gemini; Lamech-Cancer. This brings 
us to Verse 18: now, verse 19 goes on: Ada is Leo and is female; Zilla is Virgo and is Female; Jabal is Libra, male; Jubal is 
Scorpio, male; Tubalcain (the real Cain !! - Mars) is Sagittarius and lastly we have Naema, female which is Capricorn. 
Anticipating here now we see that females are only: Capricorn, Leo and Virgo; no other sign as far as we can distinguish. 
VERSE 17: Henoch built a city called Henoch in Pisces (Cain did build it). 
VERSE 19: Lamech (Mars in Cancer) took two wives: Ada and Zilla; therefore it looks 
as if Mars, while passing through the signs of Leo and Virgo, suddenly becomes of 
female sex !! 
Mars female of Leo bore Jabal, Libra Mars, of whom came those who dwell in tents 
and who grow cattle. 
VERSE 21: His brother (Libra Mars is a brother of Scorpio Mars) Jubal, Scorpio 
produces the ones who play the violin and the flute (see later in the psalms when we 
find the various orchestras). 
VERSE 22: Mrs Zilla, Virgo, produced Tubalcain, Sagittarius who is master in all sorts 
of ore and iron. This means: natives who have Mars in that sign are fit for those types 
of work. The sister of Tubalcain is Naema, the same as Eve was the wife of Adam. 
The above genealogy is shown in Figure # 42. However in Figure # 41, I shall bring 
another conception of how this genealogy could run. I do not believe it is the right 
idea, but we may need it later on for comparison. Adjustments if necessary are made 
quickly. I worked about one month to bring both in shape. In Figure # 41 I assume 
Sagittarius and Capricorn to be occupied still by Adam and Eve. This is remote, in as 
much as my experience has shown that if a new chapter begins, a new and different 
cycle independent of the previous one, is in the making. Thus we stick to Figure # 42. 
From what I know from later chapters, children are only born when the male planet 
(Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn) are in opposition to the female planets whereby the 
females are in Leo and Virgo, the males therefore in Aquarius and Pisces. On the other hand, children are born when a male 
planet comes to a conjunction with a female planet in Capricorn. Mercury seems to be a male throughout, but a female in 
Leo, Virgo and Capricorn. Venus seems to be female throughout. The statement that Mars could change his sex I think is 
wrong. Mars, God, can never be female. This was stated erroneously. Each male planet has his female planet to whom he 
gets married. However, should he get into opposition to another female planet that is not supposed to be his from Aquarius 
 
Page 19 
or Pisces (the female one in Leo or Virgo) then that planet is evidently his concubine. In Capricorn 
we have the same condition [ Page 21 ] but the act is a conjunction. 
The man called Tubalcain, which we note is Sagittarius is Mars and Tubal most likely means “real 
or actual”, while Cain out of Aquarius may be the “pseudo-Cain”. 
Lamech is our Mars # 2; he had two wives, Leo and Virgo. Ada, i.e. Leo as a woman produced: 
Jabal or Libra and Jubal or Scorpio. Figure # 43. 
Zilla as a woman, i.e. Virgo, produced: Tubalcain or Sagittarius and Naoma or Capricorn (Eve). 
Figure # 44. 
Figure # 45 shows how we have to apply the idea of cattle. We use our 150° angles right through 
as we began with Cain and Abel. Therefore, Jabal or Libra should be the father of Libra itself and of 
Taurus. Jubal, Scorpio, which is his brother, was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ 
(German text: violinists and flute players). This idea we show in # 46. We note in our drawings that 
Libra corresponds to the sign of Taurus thus, moving on each side one sign ahead, we get the next 
corresponding signs: Gemini and Scorpio. 
In Figure # 42 we note that Lamech is Cancer; he speaks to his wives, Leo and Virgo. Thus: 
speaking to someone should mean that two planets are either 30° or 60° away from each 
other. We note that Lamech is also 150° away from Cain. This is five signs away from the 
point of origin, 0° Aquarius. Now, the sevenfold evidently means seven signs and when we 
put the two wives into the count we obtain actually seven signs. Supposing Mars (Cain) was 
slain, he would revive seven signs later or at 0° Virgo. On the other hand, when Mars # 2 
which is Cancer gets slain, I would interpret it as if he would have no effect for 77 consecutive 
signs, he will be dead that long. This is an immense period; it takes Mars about 24 years to 
get through 12 signs or it would consume over 15 years he then should re-awake. 
The remark: I have slain a man to my wounding and a young man to my hurt should mean 
this: Lamech, Mars # 2 has slain a man. This can only be a Mars cycle; either Mars # 1 at 0° 
Sagittarius which might end at 15° Cancer, or even Mars who sits on the throne at 0° Taurus 
or remotely Cain at 15° Aquarius as we may see from Figure # 43. The young man is Jupiter 
who was slain at the very place, 15° Cancer, by Cain (Mars). The slaying occurred either with: 
hand (0° Taurus), with the foot (0° Sagittarius or 15° Aquarius) or with the head (15° Cancer). 
In Figure # 46 I bring now the homes of the various planets wherein they belong according 
to this story. And Figure # 49 dissects these signs once more into true fashion. 
Figure # 47 reveals: 
1) Mars rules Sagittarius and Capricorn 
2) his wife, Mercury, rules Gemini and Cancer 
3) Saturn rules Aquarius and Pisces 
4) his wife, the Sun (seemingly) rules Leo and Virgo 
5) Jupiter rules Aries and Taurus 
6) his wife, Venus, rules Libra and Scorpio 
That this is a radical departure from “book astrology” is obvious. Here we 
have a reason for the division. When we now look at our Figures # 45 and 46 
and see the “flop-overs” and remember that Capricorn is female and actually 
Mercury, we may say: Sagittarius [ Page 22 ] is the male Mars and Capricorn 
is the female Mars or Mercury. 
Using the same idea throughout we get: 
- Aquarius is the male Saturn and Pisces is the female Saturn or the Sun; 
- Aries is the male Jupiter and Taurus the female Jupiter or Venus; 
- Gemini is the female Mars or Mercury (flop-over Figure # 45) and Cancer is the male Mars; 
 
Page 20 
- Leo is the female Saturn or the Sun, and Virgo is the male Saturn (flop-
over along the line Pisces-Virgo); 
- Libra is the female Jupiter or Venus; Scorpio is the male Jupiter. 
The “flop-over” occurs at an angle of 150°. Thus from one planet’s house 
to his next are always 150°. All Mars, Saturn and Jupiter signs now turn out 
to be male and all Sun, Venus and Mercury signs prove to be female. We 
find now that Lamech turns out to be a second grade Mars, when we term 
the one in Sagittarius as being of the first degree. Therefore we use the 
dividing line Sagittarius-Gemini and call the right side the side at which all 
# 1 or prime planets are located and the other side, where the number 2 
planets are found. Our Figure # 51 shows the arrangement of the sings in 
due rotation. 
Male signs are 
Female Signs are 
Sagittarius 
Capricorn 
Aquarius 
Pisces 
Aries 
Taurus 
Cancer 
Gemini 
Virgo 
Leo 
Scorpio 
Libra 
According to this deduction, it is impossible to reconcile that 
our Figure # 42 is correct when we place Mrs. Zilla into Virgo. 
To the contrary, we have to build a new picture and therefore 
we call Figure # 50 the revised picture of Figure # 42. We 
then can recognize a cycle of re-birth or re-incarnation if 
such a thing is possible. We saw Capricorn or Mercury 
produced from Mars out of Sagittarius. We saw the birth of 
Cain, equalling (now we shall call Cain Saturn which he really 
is but which we could not do before in order not to switch 
your ideas) Saturn; his brother was Abel or Jupiter in Aries. 
Saturn had a wife, the Sun which is in Pisces. Abel of 
necessity had to have a wife which, even though not 
mentioned in the Bible we can see from the figure that it had 
to be so: Taurus-Venus. We found that the opposites give us female 
conditions: Mars in Sagittarius gives us the female Gemini (opposite). 
Finally, we see from Figure # 52 that the Sun reproduces Saturn and 
Jupiter in Virgo and Scorpio, while Figure # 53 reproduces once more our 
beginning: Adam and Eve in the form of Tubalcain and Naoma. 
The only thing that now needs readjustment is the middle part: Jabal, the 
father of the tent dwellers is now Saturn in Virgo. 
Jabal, his brother (see how fine this matches now !), Jupiter, was the 
father Scorpio, of those that handle the harp and the organ. 
Jabal, Saturn in Virgo is: the father also of those that have [ Page 23 ] 
cattle. 
We may make a slight readjustment about the “sevenfold”, verse 23 which actually started this entire explanation on my 
part. Looking now at Figure # 50 we find seven signs that have to do with Lamech, including his own; from Cancer to 
Capricorn. Figure # 46 is out, of course, because Libra cannot be meant to be the young man anyhow, but Aries (Jupiter) 
must be meant. 
 
Page 21 
An artificer of brass and iron is surely Mars, just one more hint that 
Tubalcain is placed right. 
VERSE 25: We fall back to our Adam cycle now: Adam, Mars, knew 
Mercury again and she here Seth which becomes Mars in Cancer, i.e. 
our old friend Lamech; his cycle started after the Abel cycle had 
finished or died. This new cycle is therefore again a Mars cycle. Seth 
had a son, Enos, which is Virgo and equal again to Saturn. 
Here is now the rule of major cycles; Mars is first cycle; Saturn is 
second cycle, at the same time Jupiter runs a cycle; third cycle, Mars; 
fourth cycle Saturn. The latter are secondary cycles as may be seen 
from Figure # 49. We miss a companion to the second Saturn cycle, 
which would be Scorpio (Figure # 49) and we simply have to do 
without that until the Bible says something about that. 
From here on we have to use mathematics and logarithms and 
things become for a while more complicated. Be sure that you 
understand everything so far. 
Chapter 5 
VERSE 1: Man was made in the likeness of God, i.e. Mars. Male and 
female created he them; we have done so in Figure # 51. The word 
“Blessed” is not quite clear. He called their name Adam, here the 
plural (i.e. Mars cycles) is used for the singular Adam. This could 
refer to Sagittarius, together with Capricorn, or to the entire 
Zodiac. 
VERSE 3: Adam; Mars, lived one hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in 
his own likeness after his image, i.e. another Mars, and called his name Seth; 
we know that one is at 0° Cancer, or 210° away from Adam. 
Therefore 130 years means 210° in the motion of the planets. Thus, dividing 
210 by 130 gives us the length of one year. 210° equal 1260 minutes in arc 
(note this value occurs often in the Revelation as we shall find later, where it 
is used for days which shows us that biblical days are meant to be minutes !!). 
1260’ + 130 is equal to 96' 55.3846” 
or to 1° 36’ 55.3846” 
This is 1 year of the Bible. 
One month is therefore one twelfth part of that value or 484.615” 
 
or 8’ 4,615”. 
One day amounts to 16.154” when we divide the month by 30. 
The log (Logarithm) of 1 year is 3.7645784. 
In all the following we simply have to multiply the given years by 1° 36' 
55.3846” and we have definitely located the birthplaces and the places of their 
deaths in the Zodiac. For the number of the ages we use the Logarithm 
thereof, adding to it the Logarithm of [ Page 24 ] the year: this gives us the 
Logarithm of the cycle, and from this we have the cycle. 
Before we begin the calculations, we turn the value of 1° 36’ 55.3846” into seconds and obtain 5815.3846”. We have to 
use the seven places Briggs Logarithms. The log of 5815.3846” is 3.7645784. 
 
Page 22 
VERSE 4 and 5: 
log 930 2.9684829 
log @ 
3.7645784 
 
6.7330613; this equals 5408300”. 
Thereby 930 represents the years that Adam lived. Log @ represents our fixed value of 5815.3846 ” which is expressed 
therein in its logarithmic equivalent. 
5408300” ÷ 60 equals 90138' 20” 
90138’ 20” ÷ 60 = 1502° 18‘ 20” from Adam's birth at 0° Sagittarius 
Taking out 4 circles of 360° leaves 62° 18’ 20”. 
The place of death of Adam is therefore at 2° 18' 20” Aquarius. 
Adam was born at 0° Sagittarius, conceived his son Seth at 0° Cancer and died 4 cycles plus 62° 18' 20” later at 2° Aquarius 
18’ 20” (Figure # 53 a). 
VERSE 6: 105 years from 0° Cancer 
log 105 
2.0211893 
log @ 
3.7645784 
 
5.7857677; this equals 610615”. 
610615 ÷ 60 is 10176’ 55”; 
10176' 55” ÷ 60 is 169° 36’ 55” from birth at 0° Cancer. This value equals 19° 36' 55” Sagittarius as the place of birth of 
Enos, the son of Seth. 
VERSE 8: Seth's entire age was 912 years. 
log 912 
2.9599948 
log @ 
3.76457 
 
6.7245732; this equals 5303630”; 
5303630 ÷ 60 is 88393’ 20” 
88393’ 20” ÷ 60 is 1473° 13’ 20” from 0° Cancer; 
taking out 4 circles of 360° we have left 33° 13' 20” from 0° Cancer which is 3° 13' 20” Leo as the place of birth of Seth. 
90 years from 19° 36' 55” Sagittarius 
log 90 
1,9542425 
log @ 
3.7645784 
 
5.7188209; this log equals 523385’. 
VERSE 9: 523385” ÷ 60 is 8723' 5”; 
8723’ 5” ÷ 60 is 145° 23’ 5”. 
Adding this value to 19° 36' 55” Sagittarius we get 165° 00’ 00” Sagittarius or 15° 00’ 00” Taurus as the place where Kenan 
was conceived. 
VERSE 10: Enos was age 905 at time of death: 
log 905 
2.9566486 
log@ 
3.7645784 
 
6.7212270; this log equals 5263920”. 
VERSE 11: 5262920” ÷ 60 is 87715' 20” 
87115’ 20” ÷ 60 is 1461° 55' 20”. 
Taking out four circles of 360° which amount to 1440”, we have 21° [ Page 25 ] 55' 20” left; adding these to the place of 
birth of Enos 19° 36' 55” Sagittarius gives us 41° 32' 15” Sagittarius and this equals 21° Capricorn 32’ 15”. 
Enos died at 21° 32’ 15” Capricorn. 
VERSE 12: 70 years from 15° Taurus 
log 70 1.8450980 
log@ 
3.7645784 
5.6096764; this log equals 407077”; 
 
Page 23 
407077” ÷ 60 is 6784’ 37” 
6784' 37” ÷ 60 is 113° 04’ 37” from 15° Taurus or 128° 04' 37” Taurus which is equal to 8° 04' 37” Virgo. 
VERSE 13: Kenan's age was 910 years 
log 910 2.9590414 
log@ 
3.7645784 
6.7236918 (“exact”) equals 5292000”; 
VERSE 14: 5292000 ÷ 60 is 88200'; 
88200' ÷ 60 is 1470° from 15° Taurus; 
Taking out 4 circles @ 360° or 1440° leaves 30° plus 4 circles or 15° Gemini. 
Kenan dies at 15° Gemini. 
At 65, Mahalaleel conceived Jared; 
log 65 1.8129134 
log @ 
3.7645784 
5.5774918 (“exact”); this log equals 378000”. 
378000” ÷ 60 is 6300'; 
6300’ ÷ 60 is 105° 00’ 00” from 8° 04’ 37” Virgo which gives us 113° 04' 37” Virgo or 23° 04’ 37” Sagittarius. 
Jared was conceived at 23° 04' 37” Sagittarius. 
VERSE 15: Mahalaleel’s age was 895 years. 
log 895 2.9518230 
log @ 
3.7645784 
6.7164014 which log equals 5204770”; 
VERSE 16: 5204770” ÷ 60 is 86746’ 10” 
86746’ 10” ÷ 60 is 1445° 46’ 10”. 
Taking out four circles or 1440° we have 5° 46' 10” left to be added to the birth which occurred at 8° 04' 37” Virgo. 
Therefore Mahalaleel died at 13° 50' 47” Virgo. 
VERSE 17: Jared 162 years 
2.2095150 
3.7645784 
5.9740934 or  
942092” 
15701' 32” 
261° 41’ 32” from 23° 04' 37” Sagittarius is 
VERSE 18: Henoch conceived at 14° 46’ 09” Virgo 
Jared 962 years when he died: 
2.9831751 
3.7645784 
6.7477535 is 
5594400” (“exact”) 
93240’ 
1554° 00' 00” [ Page 26 ] 
VERSE 19: less 4 x 360° 1440° 
114° from 23° 04’ 37” Sagittarius or 
137° 04’ 37” Sagittarius 
VERSE 20: This equals 17° 04’ 37” Aries where Jared died. 
Henoch 65 conceived Methuselah; this value is the same as Mahalaleel’s and we just use the same value: 105° 00’. 
Henoch born at 14° 46’ 09” Virgo 
plus 105* 
VERSE 21: 
119° 46' 09” Virgo or 29° 46’ 09” Sagittarius. 
 
Page 24 
VERSE 22: Methuselah was conceived at 29° 46' 09” Sagittarius. 
Henoch 365 years. 
2.5622929 
3.7645784 
6.3268713 = 
2122620” 
35377’ 
589° 37’ 
 
less 1 circle 
360° 
229° 37’ 
adding this to 14° 46' 09” Virgo gives 244° 23' 09” Virgo. 
Henoch died therefore at 4° 23' 09” Taurus. He was not seen anymore; this means that cycle does not re-occur 
anymore. 
VERSE 25: Methuselah 187 years  
2.2718416 
3.7645784 
6.0364200 or 
1087477” 
18124’ 37” 
302° 04' 37” 
Methuselah was born at 29° 46' 09” Sagittarius 
plus  
302° 04’ 37” 
331° 50' 46” Sagittarius or 
1° 50’ 46” Scorpio. 
Lamech was conceived at 1° 50' 46” Scorpio 
Methuselah died 969 years old. 
2.9863238 
3.7645784 
6.7509022 equals 
5635110” 
93918’ 30” 
1565° 18' 30” 
reject 4 circles 
1440° 
125° 18’ 30” from 29° 46’ 09” Sagittarius. 
VERSE 26: this is 155° 04’ 39” Sagittarius or 5° 04' 39” Taurus plus 4 x 360°. 
VERSE 27: Methuselah died at 5° 04' 39” Taurus. 
VERSE 28 and 29: 
Lamech 182 years conceived Noah 
2.2600714 
3.7645784 
6.0246698 or 
1058450” 
17640' 50” 
294° 00' 50” 
added to 
1° 50’ 46” Scorpio 
gives  
 
295° 61’ 36” Scorpio or 
Noah was conceived at 25° 51’ 36” Leo. 
Lamech lived 777 years. 
Read back Chapter 3, verse 24. Now we get the explanation of this [ Page 27 ] verse. 
Log 777 
2.8904210 
log @ 
 
3.7645784 
6.6549994 or 
4518552” 
75309’ 12” 
1255° 09’ 12” 
reject 3 circles 
1080° 
175° 09’ 12” 
adding this to 
1° 50' 46” Scorpio 
gives us  
176° 59' 58” Scorpio and thus we are off 2 full seconds !! with our logarithms to hit the full 0 !! It 
 
Page 25 
necessarily should be 177° 00’ 00” Scorpio or 27° 00' 00” Aries. 
VERSE 30 and 31: Lamech died at 27 Aries plus 3 cycles. 
VERSE 32: Noah 500 years 
2.6989700 
3.7645784 
6.4635484 or 
2907697” 
48461' 37” 
807° 41’ 37” 
less 2 x 360° 
720° 
87° 41’ 37” from 25° 51' 36” Leo 
or 
113° 33’ 13” Leo which equals 
23° 33' 13” Scorpio as the birth place of Sham, Ham and Japhet. 
The series runs as follows: 
Name 
 
born 
 
died 
 
add circles 
Adam 
 
0° Sagittarius 
2° 18’ 20” K 
4 
Seth 
 
0° Cancer 
3° 13’ 20” E 
4 
Enos 
 
19° 36’ 55” I 
21° 32’ 15” J 
4 
Cainan  
15° 00’ 00” B 
15° 00’ 00” C 
4 
Mahalaleel 
8° 04’ 37” F 
13° 50’ 47” F 
4 
Jared 
 
23° 04’ 37” I 
17° 04’ 37” A 
4 
Henoch  
14° 46’ 09” F 
4° 23’ 09” B 
1 
Methuselah 
29° 46' 09” I 
5° 04’ 39” B 
4 
Lamech  
1° 50’ 46” H 
27° 00” 00” A 
3 
Noah (Naema) 
25° 51’ 36” E 
Shem, Ham 
& Japhet 
23° 33' 13” H 
To satisfy you temporarily on the outcome of these studies we look for a moment at the performance of stocks, at the 
major tops and bottoms: 
August 24th, 1921 major bottom: Mars at 13° 51' Leo, 30° away from the place of death of Mahalaleel. 
September 3rd, 1929, major top: Mars at 8° 04' 37” Libra, 30° away from the birth place of Mahalaleel. At the same time 
Jupiter was 90° away from Henoch's birth place at 14° 46’. 
VERSE 24 tells us: Enoch walked with God and he was not; this means we have not here to do with continuous Mars cycles, 
although the first one Adam and the second one are Mars cycles; the former is male the latter also, only one is prime while 
the other is secondary. 
The division as we have it above gives us already a hint on [ Page 28 ] how we have to apply these cycles in their rotation. 
Cainan spells relationship to Cain and Saturn; Jared spells relation to Jupiter with an odd name between; in our Figure # 49 
we have between Saturn and Jupiter our Sun in Pisces. Therefore we may say now: 
(consulting also Figure # 50) that the 
Adam cycle represents 
Mars # 1 
Seth cycle 
 
Mars # 2 
Enos cycle 
 
Sun # 1 
Cainan cycle 
 
Saturn # 1 
Mahalaleel cycle  
Venus # 1 
Jared cycle 
 
Jupiter # 1 
Henoch cycle 
 
Sun # 1 
Methuselah cycle 
Mercury # 2 
Lamech cycle 
 
Mars # 2 
Noah cycle = Naema 
Mercury # 1 
 
Page 26 
Shem, Ham and Japhet, a combination of the three big men: 
Mars 
Saturn Jupiter 
to verse 22: Enoch (German word is Henoch) walked with God and he was not, of course not, because we have it the Sun # 
1 and taken it from Cain cycle, Figure # 50. Sun was therefore conjunction Mars at that time. 
End of Chapter 5. 
Chapter 6 
Men began to multiply means: cycles began to multiply. “Daughters were born unto them”. Strange it does not say “sons 
were born unto them”. 
The sons of God: Saturn # 1, Jupiter # 1, Mars # 2, Saturn # 2 and Jupiter # 2 are evidently meant by that expression. They 
saw the daughters of men are evidently: 
Mercury # 2, Sun # 2, Venus # 2, in as much as the # 1 are the wives, therefore we also have to say: the sons of men are: 
Mars # 2, Saturn # 2 and Jupiter # 2, while the Sons of God would then turn out to be: Mars # 1, Saturn # 1, and Jupiter # 1 
and the second paragraph above is thus voided. 
Man is also flesh is not clear what it manes. 
His days shall be 120 years, we know from before that 1 year equals 1° 36’ 55.3846” and that its log is 3.7645784. We now 
figure out how long these 120 years are in degrees. 
log 120  
2.0791812 
log @ 
 
3.7645784 
5.8437596 or 
6978460” 
11630’ 46” 
193° 50’ 46” 
This value should therefore be the length of one single cycle for any of the men. 
VERSE 4: Giants in the earth means: in Sagittarius, Capricorn and Aquarius. “Also after that” means: in Pisces. Later on we 
will find many giants in Pisces. 
“When the sons of God came in”. This sounds just contrary. 
July 21st, 1937: After continuing my studies deeper and deeper [ Page 29 ] into the Bible, making complete notes of 
interpretation right along so that I have about 400 pages worked up roughly already, I have stepped over into two books, 
called Apocrypha and Pseudepigrapha, which are Bibles or parts of the Bible that never were published before, at least not 
incorporated into the Bible proper. Studying them now for over two months, I found that they were written somewhat 
different, somewhat easier than the original Bible and certain slants which I was able to take from them will now help 
tremendously toward the interpretation of the actual Bible. The two volumes mentioned can be had from the Oxford 
University Press. 
Re-explanation of Chapter 6, verse 3. 
Inasmuch as God allows them another 193° 50' 46” before he punishes them, we know from the Apocrypha and 
Pseudepigrapha that his home is at 15° 00' 00” Cancer; therefore he was just then at 1° 09’ 14” Capricorn. This place is in 
the earth. 
Now, in explaining VERSE 4, I found that the conceptions and the production of children always occurs in the earth and 
nowhere else. It does not occur in the heaven. Mars does not produce children as far as I could find, although we have had 
a few verses before where it says: the children of God. This must mean “the planets” in general and these children produce 
children. However, he seems to have his hand in it. I found cases when Mars is 30° away from a male and also from a female 
planet at the same time and a new, important cycle begins in the market. Thus it seems (I am not quite sure as yet) that a 
birth can only occur in the earth and planets must be 30° apart. The male planet is most likely the one which comes in 
 
Page 27 
question that has to be in the earth; the female one may be in the earth or may be outside of it. 
VERSES 5 and 6 need no explanation. 
VERSE 7: God wants to destroy: from man to cattle, to worms and to the birds underneath the heaven. Man is Sagittarius, 
worms are Aquarius and birds are also Aquarius and cattle is Capricorn. So that the sector we call earth i.e. 0° Sagittarius 
to 0° Pisces disappears. 
VERSE 8: Noah found grace before the Lord. He was thus approaching Mars, because it says: before. Who is Noah  ? He was 
born at 25° 51' 36” Leo and equals a Mercury cycle. 
Now from what I studied in the Pseudepigrapha when they treat the Patriarchs, Reuben, Simeon, Levi, etc., the twelve sons 
of Jacob, I found that these fellows are all Saturn cycles with a varied beginning. It therefore is possible that all the cyc les 
of Adam that we have analyzed so far may be cycles of Mars alone and nothing else. This, of course is an assumption which 
we have to prove later on. The only difference that we may detect is the nature of the cycle. Thus when we call all Adam’s 
generation Adam or Mars cycles, the first one would be a Mars cycle, the second one also, the third one would become a 
Martial Sun cycle or a solar Mars cycle; the fourth would become a Saturnian Mars cycle, the next one a Venusian Mars cycle, 
etc. Mars thus would act in the nature of the other planet which is quite possible, having had much experience with that in 
other ways already. 
Therefore Noah would be a Mercurian Mars cycle. [ Page 30 ] 
VERSE 9: The generation of Noah. He, Mars, was a pious man, without travel, i.e. he started at the right beginning. Now we 
have to consider that he began at 25° 51’ Leo which place belongs to the Sun. But we cannot do anything with this thought, 
except bear it in mind. He, Noah, led the life like God, i.e. like Mars. 
VERSE 10: He had three sons: Shem, Ham and Japhet. Nothing is said of daughters. We do not know when or where they 
were born. 
VERSE 11: The earth was wicked before the eyes of God. We have to remember constantly from now on that when it says: 
see or hear, or some other action of the body is given, that means: a planet is a definite amount of degrees and minutes 
and seconds from the object which is talked about. Therefore, in our present case, we have God looking with his eyes to the 
earth and, when we consider our man in the ellipse, his feet must be on the earth so that he can look down to it. He must 
have been over in Cancer somewhere, probably even at 15° Cancer. 
VERSE 12: This may mean all flesh, i.e. the children produced in the earth, had spoiled his (Mars') path on the earth. It  does 
not seem to mean that the flesh has spoiled its own path. 
VERSE 13: God spake to Noah. Speaking is of course also a distance between two planets, which it is I have not be able to 
find as yet. But in our case he seems to be speaking to himself. In this case speaking may mean to be at a special place in 
the Zodiac, provided one talks to himself. Therefore, let us assume for the moment because 15° Cancer is not so good, that 
he talks to himself at 1° 09' 14” Cancer (see Page 30, explanation of VERSE 4) apposite the place where he allows them 
120 years yet. He wants to destroy the flesh with the earth. 
What appears to me to convey as thought is this: 
We have make the various divisions - men, cattle, birds. etc. and nothing more can be said about that. Let us clean house 
now and begin a brand new idea of how we can approach the subject. 
VERSE 14: In Chapter 27 of Exodus, verse 1, we find that the altar was made of “shittim-wood”, the German text of the 
same gives it as “Foehrenholz”, the Latin word for it is Pinus, Pine. This I have been able to locate as representing the sign 
of Libra. In this verse the wood is called gopherwood. The German text renders it as “Tannenholz” and the Latin word for 
the same is Picea - Spruce. In as much as we have to have a flood, we find ourselves already in a sea, Scorpio which suits 
us well. Gopher wood, respectively Spruce, should be Scorpio. 
Details about the construction of the Ark. 
 
Page 28 
VERSE 15: Its length is to be 300 ells, the width 50 ells and the height 30 
ells. 
When we go in reverse (inverse) direction from 0° Libra 300° (cubits) we 
arrive at 0° Sagittarius. This line, 0° Libra to 0° Sagittarius would give us 
the base of the Ark. However, on account of the pitch we cannot use this 
idea, because the pitch is meant to shut out the water and we have no 
water at 0° Libra nor at 0° Sagittarius. Therefore we are going to shift our 
Ark over so that the water is shut out, at least for the time being. We know 
that [ Page 31 ] we have water in Scorpio and also in Pisces. And, by the 
way, I have found that the earth extends from Bersabe, or 26° 32' 18” 
Scorpio over to 3° 27' 41” Pisces, adding a little bit of water on each side 
of the earth as belonging to the earth. This is one of my later discoveries. 
So that, we now construct the Ark with a base extending from 26° 32' 18” 
Scorpio to 3° 27' 41” Pisces, a length of 96° 55' 23”. Measured the other 
way, we have thus the heaven being 263° 04’ 37.7”. The question is now: which value represents 300 ells ? Most likely 300 
ells are 263° 04' 37.7”. Therefore, 1 ell would be 43’ 50.77” long. 50 ells would be 36° 32' 38.5” as the width. 
This would give us: 26° 32' 18” Scorpio less 36° 32’ 38.5” or 20° Libra for one corner and 10° Aries for the other corner. 
Now 30 ells would be 21° 53’ 23”. This we have to add on both sides and we get: 28° 06’ 37” Virgo and 1° 53’ 23” Taurus. 
In the Pseudepigrapha I have found similar values also when figuring other phenomena. The values I had found in that book 
were: 20° 46' Virgo and 0° 13' Taurus. We are therefore 7° 20' out of the way somewhere. 
We keep both values in our mind and see what we can do with them and later on we have to drop the one that may prove 
to be wrong but both may prove to be right, because as stated, the things that were looked for with the Pseudepigrapha 
story was something else all together and the count began not on both sides, but at the end of the earth, i.e. 3° 27' 41” 
Pisces. 
VERSE 15: One window was to come above. This window is at 15° Cancer and we have to drop the former idea of starting 
with 1° 09’ Cancer else we get out of symmetry. It is one ell in length; one half of an ell is 21‘ 55.38”. Taking this value off, 
respectively adding it to our 15° Cancer, we have as the corner of the windows: 
15° 21’ 55.38” Cancer and 14° 38' 04.62” Cancer. 
VERSE 16: The door is to come in the middle of the side. We have to assume that the side meant is in Libra, because from 
other factors which I found, Libra is the most likely place and not on the Taurus side. 
Therefore the lower part of the side is 
at 20° 00' 00” Libra 
the upper part 
at 28° 06’ 37” Virgo 
the middle would thus be 
at 9° 03’ 18.5” Libra. 
The Ark is to have three floors. We make them by connecting the corners opposite each other; see Figure # 55. 
VERSE 17 is clear. He wants to have a flood with water (not with oil or blood) and the flood is to be on the earth and not in  
the heaven; he wants to ruin all the flesh in which living souls are contained below the heaven. We just found or stated  that 
the heaven extends from 3° 27’ 41” Pisces to 26° 32' 08” Scorpio. Thus in this sector we have no flood. The expression: all 
that is on the earth shall go down in not clear. “Going down” means setting, i.e. to come down from the heaven to the earth. 
Now something that is on the earth actually cannot go down any more because it is down. The meaning evidently could 
only be: those born in the earth shall perish. But on the other hand we have seen that nothing as far as I have discovered is  
born above the earth, so that does not explain this sentence either. We shall have to leave this for a [ Page 32 ] while and 
see whether we do not detect another interpretation for it. 
VERSE 18: God made a covenant, an agreement, with Noah. He shall go in the box with his sons, with his wife and with the 
wives of his sons. The number is thus 8 people. 
In order to go into the box he has to be at the door and it seems that in the meanwhile Noah, if it is Mars came down from 
 
Page 29 
15° and is now at 9° 03' 18 ½” Libra or coming towards it while the preparations are made for the Flood. 
We have four males and 4 females going into the box. The question arises now: are these eight people to be taken as 
planets or are they to be taken as cycles which will be completed during the Flood or a little while after. 
VERSE 19: he is to take pairs of animals with him of flesh, a male and a female of each. We know that these animals could 
not be from the heaven, but only From the earth. Their quantity is not given. 
VERSE 20: 
one pair of birds 
one pair of cattle 
one pair of worms 
are to go into the Ark. His own male and female have been counted already, although there were eight of them. Now, this 
covers again our earth, in as much as we have going into the Ark: men equalling Sagittarius, Cattle equalling Capricorn and 
worms equalling Aquarius. God thus destroys just the cycles herewith, but saves up the original frame which we have found 
and later on when the flood is supposed to be over then the frame, i.e. men, cattle, birds and worms are there again. The 
actual idea why the Flood picture was produced in the Bible is to convey a change of position of Mars from 0° Sagittarius 
over to 15° Cancer a feat which could not be accomplished any other way than by bringing such a story. So do you still think 
there actually was a flood, or is it all just a lot of hooey to convey an astrological law to better understanding without the 
great big masses from king to pauper for a couple of thousand years ever getting to know what is actually meant by it. 
Suggest at this point to visit some second hand book stores and try to get a copy or two of s ome “Commentary on the 
Bible” written by some “theologian, bishop or some sort of high intelligentsia” and see how they explain the Deluge and 
how they have found the exact year when this had happened. 
VERSE 21: He tells him to take some food along too (hope it wasn't canned stuff) and he should collect food so that he has 
something to eat. This indicates that food must be found in the sector which covers the earth and not in the heaven. 
 
Page 30 
VERSE 22: needs no further explanation. 
CHAPTER 7 
VERSE 1: Noah and his entire house go into the box. What do we understand with house ? The seven other people including 
him, the eighth ? or the sector that covers the earth. He, Noah would thus be ruler of that sector of the Zodiac which we 
call Earth. It [ Page 33 ] would then include among the count also the animals which he took along. 
“I have picked you at the present time as being just”. This means: Just now, at the door of the Ark he is “just”. Therefore, 
the word just should mean to be at 9° 03' 18 ½” Libra, provided our door is the right door as deduced via the “ells”. 
VERSE 2: From the clean beast he is to take seven and seven, the male and the female. Note this is not expressed in plural 
form, because it possibly means that and that sector. From the unclean beasts he is to take but one pair each, a male and 
a female. 
VERSE 3: The same he is to do with the bird below the heaven, i.e. those which are on the earth, to take seven and seven, 
the male and the female. Nothing is said now about the worms. Either they have no sex or something else brings it about 
that he eliminates them. Anyhow, when adding them together, we get the following Table: 
Men 
 
 
Clean beasts 
 
Birds 
26° 32' 18”  
H 
14° 52’ 30.45” I 
26° 47’ 15.95” J 
29° 09' 28.35”  -//- 
17° 29’ 40.8”  
-//- 
29° 24’ 26.3”  
-//- 
1° 46' 38.7” 
 I 
20° 06' 51.15”  -//- 
1° 01’ 37.65”  
K 
4° 23' 49.05”  
-//- 
22° 44’ 01.4”  
-//- 
4° 38’ 48”  
-//- 
7° 00’ 59.4”  
-//- 
25° 21’ 11.75”  -//- 
7° 15' 58.35”  
-//- 
9° 38' 09.75”  
-//- 
27° 58’ 22.1”  
-//- 
9° 53’ 08.7”  
-//- 
12° 15’ 20.1“  
-//- 
0° 35’ 32.45”  
J 
12° 30' 18.05” -//- 
14° 52’ 30.45”  -//- 
3° 12' 42.8”  
-//- 
15° 07' 28.4”  
-//- 
5° 49’ 53.15”  
-//- 
17° 44’ 38.75”  -//- 
Unclean beasts  
8° 27' 03.5”  
-//- 
20° 21’ 49.1”  
-//- 
21° 32’ 55.25”  J 
11° 03’ 13.85”  -//- 
22° 58’ 59.45”  -//- 
24° 10’ 05.6”  
-//- 
13° 41' 24.2”  
-//- 
25° 36' 09.8”  
-//- 
26° 47’ 15.95”  -//- 
16° 18' 34.55”  -//- 
28° 13' 20.15”  -//- 
18° 55' 44.9”  
-//- 
0° 50’ 30.5”  
L 
21° 32' 55.25”  -//- 
3° 27' 40.35”  
-//- 
To obtain these vales I took the size of the earth, 96° 55' 23” and divided it by 37; Noah I left out because he is the ruler of 
them all. One unit is then 2° 37’ 10.35” and the calculation is right because all we miss is .15 at the end of a second. 
Now, we know that one is a male, the next is a female and so on in regular rotation. The first male is between 26° 32’ 18 ” 
Scorpio until 29° 09' 28.35” Scorpio; the first female is between 29° 09' 28.35” Scorpio and runs until 1° 46' 38.7” 
Sagittarius. It all seems to boil down to finding the sex of the children which are born in the earth and depending upon 
whether the male planet who begets is in a male sector or in a female sector, or, if it is the female planet which we must 
consider, then we have to look for the female planet to be in one of these sectors and as stated previously, it is most likely 
that we have to use 30° angles to some other planet that brings this begetting about, and most likely the planet Mars has 
his hand in it too. But we must not anticipate too far, else we are apt to make wrong conclusions. To build upon wrong 
conclusions may make our house fall asunder suddenly and we have to rebuild, going all over the field again. 
VERSE 4: In seven days he is going to let it rain. Seven days are [ Page 34 ] 11° 18' 27.69”. So we know that Noah was at 
the door, at 9° 03' 18 ½” Libra (which, by the way, I would rather have as 9° 13’ 18 ½” and possibly I made an error in the 
computation which kindly check over when studying it). Adding to this place 11° 18' 27.69” we get 20° 21' 45.99” Libra. 
There the rain began. 
VERSE 5: He is going to let it rain 40 days and 40 nights. The 40 days are above the earth and the 40 nights below the earth, 
i.e. in it as far as I judge at this moment. As soon as I calculate it I may obtain different values that may not fit and we have 
to do a little changing on it. [ Page 35 ] [ book end ]  
