Annual Forecasts
Written by Myles Wilson Walker
The rational behind doing an annual forecast is to save myself time. It is much easier to
refer to a document that has been prepared in advance rather than getting caught up in the
emotionalism of the markets.
During 2002 I used my yearly forecast nearly everyday to quickly keep track of the
current position of every market. I already knew that it was to be a bull year in the grains
and the Euro currency and I also knew the best trading dates for these markets.
Gann lines will only tell you the cycle when they hit and you can't know in advance until
you see the price as well, but Gann said every top and bottom has a mathematical
relationship and this is why I researched Gann time cycles.
In October 2001 I prepared my forecast for 2002. You can see the results of my annual
forecast for Soybeans which was made well in advance of the turning points that you see
marked.
People who have not studied the facts will tell you that it is impossible to predict the
markets so the question is, how did I also know then the S+P would have a high on friday
January 4th (actual monday 7th) that May 17th, August 5th, September 17th would all be
good times to initiate S+P trades.
The answer is because of astronomical time cycles. This is what Gann was referring to
when he wrote ........Under the instructions for the master timing angles, you will find
how far each timing angle had moved from the time Steel was incorporated up to the time
it made extreme top. Under the master timing angles we also show you what happens
when timing angles (these refer to the planets order in the solar system) 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 cross
the other timing angles (conjunct) or cross the place where they first were when Steel was
incorporated (natal astrology) or to the same place where when any extreme high or low
price is reached. You will learn when these master timing angles returns to the same
place or to the same angle or degree from which they started. Therefore you will know
the exact measurements of cycles according to moving energy. The instructions on the
master timing angles give you the cause of all market movements and they can be worked
out as far as the year 2000.The figures which we will use are figures made by the United
States Government astronomers and are therefore absolutely accurate. A careful study of
all these figures and a comparison of the movements of various stocks will convince you
of their value..........
My main writing to date has been educational but I have begun to realise that a lot of
people just don't have the time or the commitment to teach them selves the intricacies of
timing. Therefore I have listed all the cycles that will occur next year and anyone can
simply match the cycle from last year to a particular stock or commodity and trade the
future dates.
In the chart below you can see another example of my time cycles on the S+P. I call this
one Chapter 24. You can see how it performed in 2002 and it will be still accurate in
2003. These time cycles were working in Ganns day and are still working now but the
logic behind them keeps them hidden from the view of most traders.
From a money making point of view a trader can maximise their gains by trading with the
intermediate trend. Markets always are a case of action - reaction and trading with these
flows is far more profitable than taking a very long-term view. I have some very good
long-term work on Soybeans but one high probability trade every three years just doesn't
do it for me. I like trading with the flow. Its too stressful letting a position go against me
as the markets swing, especially when I have already identified that swing through my
time cycle work. This is why I like using the forecast dates, they make me very aware of
the times when I should be looking to take my profits or trading the other way.
Every market is working to a time cycle, that is the law of nature. Your work then
becomes trading them, controlling your thoughts and emotions to maximise their benefit.
The Annual forecast is also a way of keeping on track and verifying other systems that
you may be trading.
This year I have also included different entry and exit methods that would be useful as
well as some option strategies, these will help you get into winning trades with the
smallest risk. Super Timing is the only place that you will find the Annual For
