 
DEDICATED TO THE MEMBERS OF 
WHEELS IN THE SKY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
www.groups.yahoo.com/group/wheelsinthesky
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
“A forum one can learn about Gann and other famous market forecasters”. 
 
 
 
Financial Forecast 
for the Month of September 1935 
By 
GEORGE BAYER 
 
The stock market during the month of Sep-
tember should be significant for the rise in 
securities' values promised by the astrological 
aspects ruling this period. This indication is 
so at variance with the behavior of the mar-
ket since 1929 that it calls for both comment 
and caution in meeting so unique a phase of 
the forthcoming financial picture. 
We would remind our readers that ever 
since 1929, when the all-time peak for the 
market was made on September 3 of that 
year, we have had tops in the market shortly 
after .September 3 of each subsequent year. 
But the astrological design is radically dif-
ferent this year, hence the stock market in 
September promises some surprises. 
Right after Labor Day (September 2) there 
should be a general upward movement of the 
stock market due to the sextile of Venus to 
Jupiter. .On September 4, however, the mar-
ket should attain a temporary top near the 
close of trading due to the fact that the fol-
lowing day (September 5) occurs an unfavor-
able parallel .of the Sun to Neptune which 
should bring about a decline carrying through 
until September 7. 
But, on Saturday, September 7, the short 
two-hour trading day should witness a quick 
recovery in stock prices and a climb to top 
prices at the closing. On Monday, Septem-
ber 9, the market should open upward quite 
unexpectedly, possibly even with a gap in the 
utilities that should lead the market. A paral-
lel of the Sun to Mercury on Tuesday, 
September 10, should aid and accelerate the 
upward movement of prices. 
The midweek, Wednesday, September 11 is 
quite unimportant, but the sextile of the Sun 
to Jupiter on Thursday, September 12, should 
again push the market higher and cause a top. 
Thereafter the market may be expected to 
take a rest until over the weekend to digest 
the advance that started after Labor Day, and 
contrary to behavior in previous years, was 
sustained and supported. It is probable at 
this time that the speculators will put out 
short lines in anticipation of a decline but the 
aspects argue otherwise, and there should be 
no decline. 
However, it would be well to watch for ele-
ments of weakness due to this speculative op- 
eration and on Saturday, September 14, a long 
position should be take11 on in rails that 
should try to catch up with the advancing 
market. 
Again on Monday, September 16, we 
should see a further upward movement 
accompanied by a swift retirement of all the 
big operators who may -be expected to run to 
cover, consequently pushing the market still 
higher. This up-move should not be disturbed 
by any setbacks but should keep on going 
until the shorts have all covered their 
positions and until the public thinks it is time 
to buy stocks (they always buy at the top). 
On Saturday, September 21, after a full 
week's upward move, the market should make 
an important top with an exceptionally large 
volume of trading. 
But, on Monday, September 23, occurs the 
quincunx of Mars to Uranus which will not 
do the market any good. This aspect is fol-
lowed, on Tuesday, September 24, by the 
square of Mars to Saturn which should make 
matters worse. This condition should pre-
cipitate a deluge of selling on the part of the 
public, seeking to dump their stocks at any 
price. 
The climax of this culmination of aspects 
occurs on Thursday, September 26, when 
Venus gets into a square to Mars and this, 
in very close opposition to the great destroyer 
of values, Saturn, both of whom are 
antagonistic to her, should be reflected in a 
further decline in the market accompanied by 
heavy cancelling and the loss of about one-
half of the advance built up under the benefic 
aspects of the first three weeks of the -month. 
The last few days of September should wit-
ness a return to a condition of calm in the 
market, with the bulls thoroughly disgusted 
and the public owning stock very much higher 
and temporarily holding the bag. The shorts 
may try to muster their courage and seek to 
sell this market short but on the last day of 
the month, September 30, there should occur 
an upward move for one day. 
To summarize, the performance of the mar-
ket for September should be as follows: The 
upmove should start right after Labor Day 
and last until September 21.   From September 
21 we should go down until September 28 and 
then up, to September 30. The down move 
from September 21 to 28 should cancel half 
of the rally made during the first three weeks 
of the month. 
The most favored group for the upmove 
should be the utilities group, followed after 
September 14 by the rails. The most favored 
group for the down move after September 21 
should be the rail group. The industrial group 
should advance and decline normally with the 
market as a whole. Thus, it would be ad- 
visible to be long in utilities from the begin- 
ning of September, add the rails on September 
14, and sell out all long stocks on strength 
during the day of September 21. Thereafter 
it would be advisable to take a short position 
on this same day, September 21, in the rails 
and in the industrials and to hold this short 
position until September 28. Then, on Sep- 
tember 28, it would be advisable to cover this 
short position and take to the long side of the 
market again. 
 
For September the astrological aspects gov-
erning wheat would indicate a slow upmove 
until September 8, on which day the horoscope 
shows the Moon square to Saturn progressed. 
This should reflect in a sharp change in direc-
tion for wheat prices and our general inter-
pretation for this aspect is down. On Sep-
tember 20, however, the Moon comes into 
conjunction with the progressed Mid-heaven 
which should indicate a general reversal of the 
previous price trend and continue until the end 
of this month and on into October. 
Financial Forecast 
for the month of 
October  1935 
T 
.HIS month may be called the month of 
digestion of stock values. The advance that 
started on March 18th has run about 60% of 
what it should do before the bull market is 
over. In order to complete the balance, it 
must rest and digest and the planets say that 
this is the month of rest. 
This month should be practically all side-
wise movements with lower tendencies after 
a push-up the first 4 days of the month. 
Then we should turn quietly down, gradually 
sinking, even somewhat lower than the low 
at the end of September, around the 23rd of 
the month. To the traders this month will 
look like distribution of the "wise insiders," 
in reality it is the last stage of buying by 
those who know the market for the final run, 
a similar run as we experienced from mid-
July 1929 to the top in September 1929% There 
seemed to be no end to new highs in stocks 
at that time and there should seem to be no 
end on the upside when we start to go after 
October 23rd 1935. Keep this date well in 
mind as the day of beginning . . . the begin-
ning of the end. 
The first three days of October we should 
move upward quite briskly but on the 4th 
the market should make top for this month, 
due to the square of Mars to Neptune and 
the bad sextile of Saturn-Uranus. Rails and 
Utilities should be most affected by these two 
aspects and they should thus be sold on 
strength during the 4th of October. It is 
also advisable to let go of the industrials, in 
as much as the entire month at least until 
the 23rd points down. The balance of the 
aspects after the 4th and until October 23rd 
are meaningless, just causing ripples up and 
down, more down than up, however. The 
second sextile of Saturn-Uranus on the 21st 
of October will put the final wash-out on 
stocks and should cause selling of no mean 
proportions for 2 days, until October 23rd 
when we should reach the bottom due to 
good aspects developing the next day. The 
climb should not be too rapid at the begin-
ning, in as much as Saturn has put too much 
scare into the traders all around. 
Concentrating now upon the actual stock 
market   horoscope   and   checking   upon   the 
By 
George Bayer 
progressions for the month of October we 
see the following aspects corroborating the 
ephemeral positions of planets judged above. 
Between the 4th and 6th of October 1935 
we find two minor aspects to sensitive points 
which are negative, as well as a square of 
the Moon to Neptune, calling for lower levels 
in stocks. A small comeback is indicated for 
the 11th, of little consequence however. But 
—on the 22nd of October we find the moon 
getting into sextile to the mid-Heaven, a fa-
vorable aspect, that should turn stocks up-
ward into next month. On the 23rd of the 
month we find an important mutual aspect 
coming when the progressed Ascendant gets 
into sextile to the new planet Pluto. This is 
a health aspect and should bring stocks back 
into a healthy condition. 
We also find aspects at these critical dates 
to the fixed stars which corroborate the 
statement or meaning of the other planetary 
aspects. 
Therefore stock traders should according to 
the indications of the planets' aspects and as 
interpreted by the writer sell stocks on 
strength during the 4th of October and stay 
out of the market for nearly 3 weeks (at 
least those who do not get our semi-weekly 
market analysis) and buy into stocks again 
during weakness on October 23rd and hold 
these stocks into the following month, No-
vember. 
The general trend of the wheat market for 
this month should be upward although dur-
ing the first half of the month quite some 
irregularity should prevail. The most im-
portant day of the month should be October 
25th or the 26th when a top is looked for. 
Analysing the small swing movements for 
this month we find that the following days 
should produce: 
October 4th a top. 
October 8th a bottom. 
October 16th a minor top. 
October 18th a minor bottom. 
October 20th-21st sidewise. 
October 25th-26th the top and a sell-off to 
October 31st. 
Financial Forecast 
for November 1935 
By 
George Bayer 
 T 
.HE month of October represented the 
period of rest in the market. We had to digest 
the big advance of values from March to Sep-
tember. During the last days of October the 
market looked quite dreary and weak, in fact 
several stocks were able to make new low 
ground suddenly and for many traders this 
indicated that we may be heading downward. 
However, planetary constellations dictate a 
big surprise to Wall Street and share values 
for this month; aside of two minor reactions 
this month should bring higher prices in stocks 
from one day to the next and from the begin-
ning to the end of the month. Stocks should 
get easily through the September and October 
highs. 
Early in June this year the writer predicted 
in the weekly market advice 190 as the final 
level for the Dow Jones averages. When we 
start with the upmove this month, we are aim-
ing for this level. Of course it cannot be 
reached in one month, that would be asking 
too much of the market in way of perform-
ance, but we should get there in the not dis-
tant future. At any rate the advance in stocks 
this month should closely resemble in propor-
tion the advance we had from last March to 
May 16th but achieved in half that time. 
The swings and aspects causing them should 
be as follows during the month of November, 
1935. 
Carrying over from October we should con-
tinue with the upmove until November 6th 
near the close. Saturday, the 9th, Jupiter 
moves into Sagittarius, wherein it rules. Jupi-
ter, the planet of financial expansion, feels at 
home in this sign and should actually bring 
about this big upswing. However, as it is 
with humans that have been away for many 
years (and Jupiter has not been in Sagitta-
rius since December 17,1924), they do not feel 
at home during the first few days—neither will 
Jupiter—this new sensation, being at home, 
should cause some stagnation for a day. By 
November 10th Jupiter should be fully con-
scious of his old abode and the upmove should 
be getting on the way in earnest, we should 
step on the gas to make up for lost time and 
move upward from one day to the next until 
November 22nd, when Jupiter meets a parallel 
to the Sun.   This should produce a temporary 
top level with a small setback over the week-
end. The latest on Monday, November 25th, 
we should start in once more on the upside 
and keep up the good work without further 
reaction into the next month. 
For the longer swing traders our advice 
would be to buy stocks when the 1st of No-
vember comes around and hold them straight 
through this month. 
For intermediate traders we advise to buy 
also the beginning of the month and sell out 
temporarily on strength near the close of 
Wednesday, the 6th, but without taking any 
short position and replace the stocks during 
periods of weakness on Saturday, November 
9th. Then sell these once more on strength 
during Friday, November 22nd, without go-
ing short and replace them once more during 
weakness on November 25th, a Monday, and 
hold them into December. 
Traders may even go so far as to buy some 
calls early this month, say during that ex-
pected weakness between the 6th and 9th, 
thirty days' calls, on active leading stocks and 
nice profits should come forth. Such calls are 
only good when a prolonged move in one di-
rection is indicated, any other time they are of 
little value, at least not for the "buyers." 
The individual stocks as well as the groups 
that should particularly participate in this 
coming upmove are omitted here for lack of 
room. They may be found in our special 
weekly market advice. 
~ 
A few words might be said, facts that we 
mention on and off to our clients who get our 
weekly market advice, in regards to trading 
methods. 
(1) For long swing traders low priced stocks 
of a strong group usually advance in percent 
age  much more than  higher  priced  stocks. 
Thus Warner Bros, is better for the longswing 
than Loews at this time. 
(2) For intermediate swing traders stocks 
priced between 30 to 70 are the best, those that 
have big turn-over and fluctuate in eighths 
or quarters. 
(3) Avoid stocks that sell between 15 and 
20, also those between 23 and 28. 
The former have big resistance just above 
20 and the latter around 28V4. Thus they usu-
ally move between these prices for ever so 
long and even should they be able to pierce 
through on the upside a little so much stocks 
are dumped right there and then that they 
willingly back into their old range once more. 
(4) Watch low priced stocks after they have 
run 4% points, medium priced stocks after 
they have run 8% points and higher priced 
stocks when they have made 17% points. This 
level reached will invariably bring about a 
reaction into the individual stocks unless a 
"gap" is made at such point. 
Therefore as not all stocks make their highs 
on the same day, you can many times define 
yourself when your stock makes its high, and 
act accordingly, providing you watch our 
dates of change as calculated from planetary 
movements. 
Rule No. 4 is good in bull and in bear mar-
kets, while the other rules apply only for bull 
markets. In a bear market, one of them is 
due next year; long swing traders should sell 
the very high priced stocks short. They will 
come out of their "dizzy" heights" and keep 
on going until the bear market is over, when 
they will sell again below values. Intermedi-
ate traders should specially pick out stocks 
that are able to break below the 100 level', the 
130 level and the 50 level, and switch out of 
them as it goes on into others that do the same 
thing. It is the writer's experience that once 
a stock breaks the 100 level (in a bear market) 
it will make weak attempts thereafter to re-
gain it and the 80 level is easier made than the 
110 level once more. 
The biggest resistance in stocks, upward as 
well as downward, is encountered at the fol-
lowing price levels: 22%, 37%, 52%, 17%, 
82%, 971/2, 135. 
Therefore whenever our forecast shows a 
change of trend for a certain day, say from a 
down move to an upmove, always pick stocks 
that are hitting any one of these prices on big 
volume and at the same time as the general 
market looks very weak. On the other hand, 
when a top is indicated in our forecast and you 
see active stocks hitting on these prices, then 
they are just at their tops. At the time of this 
writing, September 18, 1935, we had on this 
day DD hitting 135, CTM 82%, W 52%, there-
fore they were just then in top country, ready 
to react. 
The price levels quoted above for resistance 
are actually astrological angles. They are so 
strong that they act somewhat like a wall that 
prevents stocks from going further (up or 
down). 
The performance of wheat during November 
should be somewhat similar to stocks. We 
are heading toward the 112-114 level in wheat 
as a final top for the time being, which, how-
ever, is not due as far as we can calculate 
during November. The first 9 days of the 
month should bring about a decline but on 
the 10th an upmove should start, that increases 
in speed on the 23rd of November and in-
creases some more on the 26th of the month, 
reaching over into December. Therefore a 
long position should be taken on any weak-
ness that develops early in November and this 
long position held into December. 
Previewing the February 
Stock Market 
Including a Forecast on Wheat and Cotton 
Movements 
By GEORGE BAYER 
 
In my article on "Bible Astrology 
and   the   Stock   Market,"   in   this   issue   of 
the 
hint was given that, while everything seems 
rosy and optimistic in the stock market, 
things are not all that they might be. Be-
ware of the glowing reports of earnings, of 
dividends and of future earnings. News-
papers may talk 200 for Steel or 200 for 
Western Union; it is mere talk. The best 
I can see for Steel (written November 23, 
1936) is it is nearing its top for the present 
move. However, as we get up there, the 
idea will penetrate into everyone's ,'mind. 
"The sky is the limit." 
At the beginning of the month of Feb-
ruary we are face to face with a top and all 
stocks should be sold. The main direction 
for the entire month of February is down, 
until February 25-26. During weakness of 
these two days, stocks should be repurchased 
and held into the month of March. 
For quick traders I can discern a tem-
porary bottom the day after Lincoln's birth-
day, to recapture half of the loss incurred 
from February 3-4 to February 13-14. The 
top of this minor comeback should be on the 
17th-18th of the month, followed by a re-
lapse to the 25th-26th, when prices should 
be lower than on February 13-14. 
Therefore, stocks should be liquidated the 
first few days of February and bought back 
the last few days of the month. 
February Forecast for Wheat 
• In wheat, we have to do with the same 
cycles, but their effect is different. The 
month of February is very bullish for wheat. 
After a small reaction during the first six 
days of February, we should turn about face 
and move upward strong until we meet our 
friend Jared on the 26th of February, which 
should put a temporary damper on the ad-
vance which will carry over as a minor set-
back into March. 
February Forecast for Cotton 
 
Cotton shows stagnancy for the first 25 
days of the month, but immediately there 
after an unusually strong upward movement 
should develop.   This upmove should keep 
on going into the month of March.    Very 
much higher prices are indicated later on. 
Have You An Afflicted Fifth 
House? 
• The market forecaster is frequently con-
sulted by someone who says, "I have a horo-
scope that tells me I should not speculate." 
My impartial, general attitude is that, first of 
all, this is a matter that depends upon the 
exact moment of one's birth. A few min-
utes' error may place the planets in entirely 
different houses, sometimes in different signs. 
1 do not believe one person in ten knows 
definitely the moment of his birth. 
But even when it is known that one's fifth 
house is badly aspected, or if there are un-
favorable fifth-house planetary combinations, 
this does not always mean that one should 
not "speculate." Speculation is a rather 
broad term. Under this heading belong the 
buying and selling of anything, gambling, 
or taking risks of any kind. If we apply it in 
its widest sense, anyone who has an unfavor-
able fifth house will always get the smallest 
loaves from the baker, the toughest meats 
from the butcher; he would sell the best 
merchandise at a low price, and go bank- 
rupt so often that he never could become 
small part in this, for it is based on "cold- 
successful in anything.    My conception of 
blooded" figuring. 
speculation is, to know values.   Whether it     Of course, if one has a poor Jupiter and 
is a suit or a dress, a house or a car, a stock 
also a poor Mercury, he seems to be "out 
or wheat, each one has a certain value at a 
of luck," as the saying goes.   But I do not 
certain time.    Anticipating these values and 
agree in that, either.    If his general horo- 
their changes is where the money is made, 
scope is good or fairly good, indicating that 
Such anticipation, however, as far as I can 
he will get along and profit by buying and 
judge, has very little to do with the fifth 
selling values (commodities and stocks), he 
house, but it does have to do 
will find specialists available who will do 
1—With a "good" Jupiter. 
his trading from beginning to end.    Thus, 
he speculates with someone else’s knowledge 
2—With a   good   Mercury. 
and eliminates himself.   There are, it is true, 
The former factor gives you luck auto- 
certain sign-groups who would never enter- 
matically, whether you are intelligent or an 
tain any such idea.   These are the Gemini 
ignoramus.   You simply do the right thing 
and Sagittarius natives, who crave the ex- 
or are in the right place at the right time. 
citement of speculating  for  its  own  sake. 
The second factor gives you  the ability 
The foregoing article represents the opin- 
to  calculate   according   to   the  laws   which 
ion   of  the  author,   and  is   based  on  his 
Mercury will find for you, thus enabling you 
interpretation    of    astrological    indications. 
to estimate true values.    Luck plays a very 
This magazine presents it without prejudice. 
Bible Astrology 
And the Stock Market 
In Which Are Given Some of the Keys to the 
Cyclic Movements of Shares and Commodities 
By GEORGE BAYER 
The researches on which the following article is based have covered many years. 
Mr. Bayer approaches the subject of Biblical Astrology with a genius for mathematics, 
and uses the fluctuations of the markets to check his conclusions because, principally, 
these fluctuations are so definite and easy to follow against the background of "the 
stars." In his personal practice, as a market forecaster, Mr. Bayer has used this system 
of Astrology with a steadily rising percentage of accuracy. His addresses on the subject 
at the recent All-America Astrological Convention in Chicago made such an impres-
sion on other professional market forecasters that they literally compelled him to re-
main over and conduct a "cram school" in his methods. We feel genuinely happy 
to provide a medium through which the results of his long study can be published. 
—EDITOR. 
The   other   day,    while   looking 
vince   the   readers   that   Shem,   Ham   and 
through some of my books on the Pyramids, 
Japhet,   the  sons   of  Noah,   had built the 
I noticed in one, written some years ago by 
Pyramids."   That lady, should she read this 
a New England lady, the following introduc- 
article, may get a genuine shock, 
tion: "This book is primarily written to con- 
The inhabitants of this earth, the people, 
during   the   present   transit   of   Neptune 
through the sign Virgo, have seen one revo-
lution  after  another,   some bloody,   others y 
bloodless.   These troubles started in the Fall 
of 1929, when Neptune entered Virgo.  We 
all know of the big break in stocks, all the 
world, which occurred at that time. The 
consequences  have   included   the  abandon- 
ment of the Gold Standard, first by England 
and then gradually by other nations. Finally 
our own country got in line, with France and 
other   Latin   countries   follow more recently. 
Now the press is beginning to be filled 
with talk of a new prosperity. Some news-
papers talk of a greater prosperity to come 
That we had seen in 1920.    There was no 
such talk when Chrysler was selling at $5 
four years ago, but when it pays $5 in divi-
dends and extra and sells for $135 that 
looks to some people as if prosperity is 
coming back. But they will be just as far 
wrong in their judgments as they were back 
in 1929. In the stock market we are now 
riding the top of the waves. My  analysis  
of   stock values shows that if we can better 
the February 1937, prices of the Dow 
Jones averages by one single dollar around 
March 23, 1937, we shall be doing 
splendidly. After that, look for November 
28, 1937, we as the year—some 60 points 
lower averages. In other words, we are 
through with our bull market this spring. 
(This is written November 23, 1936.)  
But you may be wondering, what has all 
this got to do with Shem, Ham and Japhet? 
A great deal, dear reader, because the indi-
cations set forth here were "dug out" of the 
Bible. And I can assure you that each word 
written in the Bible is true in more than one 
sense. 
The persons named in the Bible, with 
their journeyings and other activities, repre-
sent the planets and their cycles—their tran-
sits through the signs and houses of the 
zodiac. 
I do not indulge in theory or guesswork. I 
have hundreds of proofs of the points I 
shall bring out in this article, but a single 
8 
one will  serve   to  exemplify  the  method. 
Jacob's wife, called Rachel (who represents 
the planet which we have named Mercury) 
"dies" in its cycle each year at 29 degrees 
Pisces.   "She" remains "dead" for 6 degrees, 
then   reawakens   (in   the   Bible   narrative, 
under a different name).   What I want you 
to do is to look at wheat prices at the time 
Rachel   "dies"—when  Mercury  reaches   29 
Pisces—and  then look at the wheat prices 
"she" wakes up again—that is, when 
Mercury comes  to  5   degrees Aries.     Each 
year, when Rachel "dies," wheat prices make 
a run of 10c to 15c inside of five or six 
days. 
That fellow Jared   (Genesis   5:18)   was at 
23:5 Sagittarius.   Let us watch what stocks 
do when Jupiter completes an aspect to that 
degree: 
August 24, 1921—Big bear market bot-
tom ; Jupiter 23:4 Virgo. 
July 8, 1932—Big bear market bottom; 
Jupiter 23:4 Leo (but in wheat, the bear 
market bottom was made December 28, 
1932, -with Jupiter then at 23:4 Virgo). 
Mr. Enoch (Genesis 5:21) was born at 
14:46 Virgo (that is, the cycle of Enoch 
began at that point). 
What happens in the market when Jupiter 
aspects that degree? 
September 3, 1929-Top of the bull 
market; Jupiter 14:46 Gemini. 
April 17, 193O—The list top of the bull 
market; Jupiter was at l4:46 Gemini again. 
Mr. Enos (Genesis 5:9)) was born at 
19:36 Sagittarius. What happens in the 
market when Jupiter aspects this degree ? 
February 27, 1933—Bottom of the mar-
ket just before the banks were closed; Jupi-
ter at 19:36 Virgo retrograde. 
July 18, 1933—The big top from which 
stocks dropped 30 and more points; Jupiter 
19:36 Virgo. 
I have not the space here to show you 
how all this figuring was done, but A may 
state that exact mathematical calculations 
had to be made in order to determine the 
sensitive points which I have mentioned. 
However, since I have given you the fore-
going hints as to the factors controlling the 
major cycles in stocks, wheat, cotton and 
other commodities, I will append a few sug-
gestions concerning the minor cycles. 
These are the Adam, Shem, Ham and 
Japhet cycles, mentioned above. The Adam 
cycle is much more important than the 
Shem cycle. The Shem cycle covers a sector 
from 0 Aries to 0 Leo, the Japhet cycle 
covers 0 Leo to 0 Sagittarius, and the Ham 
cycle covers 0 Sagittarius to 0 Aries. Thus 
we see—and demonstrate—that Shem, Ham 
and Japhet are actually segments of the 
zodiac. Noah is our friend Mars. >He tra-
verses the whole zodiac. At the height of 
the "Deluge," we find him sitting up at' 0 
Taurus (earth) in the boat he built at 0 
Scorpio, which is water. The waters during 
the Deluge (imagine the zodiac with Scor-
pio at the bottom and Taurus at the top) 
rose on both sides upward until a small 
place was left over (15 Aries to 15 Taurus), 
where Mars was all alone. The windows of 
heaven, of course, are Cancer and Pisces, 
while the door which God shut behind him 
was at 15 Aquarius. The zodiacal points 
named here are highly sensitive. 
At first glance, it may be difficult for 
many readers to see that the Bible is in 
reality a most authoritative work on astrol-
ogy. The work that must have been done 
by the writers to preserve their information 
was enormous. For example, in computing 
the Adam cycle, I used 6 decimal logarithms. 
Through several "generations" I obtained all 
kinds of degrees, minutes, seconds and deci-
mals of seconds, when suddenly the next 
one would turn out to be a full degree and 
minute without any seconds or decimals. 
These cycles work into each other. That is, 
while the second and third and even fourth 
"son" is born, the original "father"-cycle is 
still in operation. 
The Bible astrologers did not work with 
angles as we know them; what did count 
with them was the positions of the planets 
at certain sensitive places in the zodiacal 
circle. In forthcoming articles in this maga-
zine I will set forth further examples of 
this system. 
10 
Secrets of Success 
for Amateur Gardeners 
The Rules and Methods Which Bring Results in 
"Gardening by the Moons." 
By GEORGE BAYER 
 
     THE amateur gardener no doubt 
right. You plant tulip bulbs upside down 
envies   the   farmer   and   the   professional 
and wonder in May if the squirrels used 
grower  of  plants.     This  amateur  spends 
them up for their dinner.   You give a little 
many a  dollar on  fertilizer;  he buys  the 
pot half a pound of fertilizer, so that it will 
very best seeds and plants; he digs over his 
not starve, killing it with kindness.    You 
ground carefully, adds sand, peat-moss and 
dare not prune your flowering shrubs and 
manure to his soil to make it "mellow," 
evergreens, because you might hurt them, 
according   to   the   rules   and   regulations 
so they become thin and scrawny.    The 
shown   in   seed  catalogues  and   in  books 
way to get bushy plants is to prune them 
treating this subject. 
properly at the right time. 
His success in planting and growing is 
comparatively  mediocre.     The   farmer  or 
THE SECRET OF SUCCESS 
professional grower is way ahead of him as 
 
to results obtained., 
 T h e  s e c r e t  o f  s u c c e s s  i n  p l a n t -  
 
 
 
ing and seeding lies with the Moon. 
It cannot be the superior intelligence or 
Gardeners and farmers watch it every day, 
education of the farmer compared with his; 
  just as the stock market speculator watches 
it cannot be the quality of seeds or plants 
  his tape and ticker. The Moon is giving him 
used, because the price of these seeds is so 
  the information of when to plant and 
small that he always can afford to buy the 
 when not to plant. It is playing a trick on 
best, while the farmer and grower who 
 you, the amateur, because it regulates 
produce large quantities of plants have to 
 planting time, and you do not observe 
be much more careful in respect to prices 
 this. Hence you act at just the wrong times 
paid for their seed material; and it cannot 
 Therefore your results are mediocre, to say 
be in the soil conditions in most cases. 
 the least. 
There are rules to follow, which perhaps        That is why you do not grow the biggest 
you  do  not  know,  and  which  are  not 
 potatoes and the biggest cabbage heads. 
printed,—rules which the experience of         A German proverb says: The dumber the 
ages   have   taught.    This   experience   is 
 farmer, the bigger his potatoes. This is about 
brought over from mouth to mouth, from 
 the worst proverb I ever came across, as 
generation   to   generation,   among   people 
 to its truth. The size of his potatoes  
who make their living growing plants. 
 depends on what his forefathers taught  
The actual observance of times when to 
 him about the Moon. 
plant and when not to plant brings you 
   You have probably found in farm homes, 
nearer the solution of this puzzling prob-      beside the Bible, an almanac. This alma- 
lem, nearer to the secret of success. 
nac  is   as  necessary  to  the   farmer   and 
It is truly said that anyone starting some-    gardener as his plough, harrow and horse.    
thing he has never done before, will first 
 
do it wrong, before he is  able  to  do it 
. 
11 
Looking at an old copy, you have noticed 
that it was thoroughly used and well worn, 
just like a pair of shoes. 
Yes, Mr. Amateur, this almanac was 
thoroughly used day after day to study the 
Moon. These farmers and gardeners are 
astronomers. Although they do not use 
fine instruments or special observatories, 
they daily scan the sky and their almanacs 
as their guides. They do not primarily 
want the stories which the almanacs con- 
tain, and which represent only the trim- 
ming. What they look for are the posi- 
tions of the Moon from day to day, by 
which they regulate their planting opera-
tions. The almanacs containing these posi-
tions are truly scientific books, .although 
few people think or know so. 
Fishermen use an almanac to find high 
and low tides, which of course are caused 
by the moon's motion around the earth. 
Accordingly they plan their fishing trips. 
The gardener and farmer also plan their 
work according to -. the dictation of the 
Moon. Everything has its time. There is 
time for seeding, for weeding and for reap- 
ing. Just as the Moon causes the tides, so 
does it influence the growth of all plants, 
the fertility of the soil. 
The Moon travels around the earth in 
about twenty-seven days. When the Moon 
is at the same place as the Sun, we have 
New Moon; when the Moon is opposite the 
Sun, or 180 degrees away from the Sun, 
we have Full Moon. Then we have the 
First Quarter and the Last Quarter of the 
Moon, which positions are just half-way 
between the New Moon and the Full Moon, 
or 90 degrees away. 
In order to fix definitely the spot where 
the Moon (also the Sun and the planets) 
is located in the heavens, astronomers have 
divided the bowl of heaven into 360 de-
grees. The bowl also is divided into twelve 
equal parts, each part being 30 degrees in 
length and each being known as a "sign" 
of the zodiac. Therefore, there are twelve 
signs  of the  zodiac,  each   30   degrees  in 
 
Phases  of the Moon 
length. The beginning of the count starts 
at the Fixed Star Gamma in the constella-
tion Aries. These signs of the zodiac are 
grouped around the bowl of heaven. Each 
one has its own name and abbreviation. 
The twelve signs in their proper rotation 
are as follows: 
Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, 
Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capri' 
corn, Aquarius, Pisces. 
In the almanacs you will find only the 
abbreviations, of symbols. 
The period from the New Moon to the 
Full Moon is the period in which the Moon 
"grows"; the period between the Full Moon 
and the New Moon is the period in which 
the Moon "decreases." 
IMPORTANT RULES 
 THE following important rules 
are used by farmers and gardeners to do 
their work of seeding and planting. 
During the time of the Moon's growth, 
that is, between New Moon and Full Moon, 
and especially while the Moon is above the 
earth, or above the horizon, and therefore 
visible, the sap in the plants runs upward 
and thus favors the growth of all parts of 
the  plants  which   are   located   above   the 
ground, such as stems, branches, leaves, 
flowers, seed pods. 
During the time of a decreasing Moon, 
that is from a Full Moon to a New Moon^ 
and especially while the Moon is below the 
earth, or below the horizon, and therefore 
invisible, the sap in the plants runs down' 
ward and thereby assists the growth of all 
those parts of the plant which are below the 
earth, such as the root system, the bulbs, 
and potatoes. 
In practice, the application of these rules 
is as follows: 
(1)  Everything   which   should   develop 
 
well above the earth, such as flowers, trees, 
shrubs, perennials; vegetables such as let- 
tuce, cabbage, kale, beans, etc., must be 
seeded or planted while the Moon grows, 
or while the Moon moves from a New 
Moon to a. Full Moon. 
(2) Everything which should develop 
well below the earth, such as onions, carrots, 
radishes, potatoes, must be seeded while the 
Moon decreases or while the Moon moves 
from a Full Moon to a New Moon. 
These rules can easily be traced in na- 
ture. For instance, when there is a Full 
Moon, you will note how leaves of all 
plants grow during the night. At this pe- 
riod they feel hard and crisp, and are full 
12 
of growing fluid, but, during the day time 
they become soft and drooping. 
On the other hand, during the New 
Moon period, that is during the time the 
Moon is in the neighborhood of the Sun, 
and is therefore invisible during the night 
below the earth and below the horizon, the 
opposite holds true. The leaves of plants 
are hard and crisp during day time and soft 
or less hard during night time. 
But water plays the most important part 
in planting and seeding. No seed will 
germinate unless sufficient moisture is con- 
tained in the ground. Inasmuch as during 
the Full Moon period the weather is usually 
dry, while during the New Moon period it 
is usually damp, we get the following addi- 
tional rules for planting and seeding: 
(1) Seed and plant from the last Quar- 
ter until the New Moon all. those plants 
which produce fruit below the earth, such 
as onions, potatoes, etc. 
(2) Seed and plant from the New Moon 
to the first Quarter all those plants which 
produce fruit above the ground, such as 
tomatoes, cucumbers, etc. 
SEEDING AND PLANTING 
NOTHING should be seeded or 
planted too near or at the New Moon pe- 
riod, because the sap is then in a period of 
transition, changing from the downward 
to the upward movement. In emergency 
cases, such work could possibly be done 
after sundown, when the Moon is below 
the earth and with the Sun. If you plant 
seed potatoes around the new moon, you 
will grow a lot of foliage, but very tiny 
potatoes. 
Fertilizing the soil should be done only 
from the last Quarter to the New Moon 
period, as the soil is then most fit to absorb 
the ingredients. A very favorable period 
for fertilizing is while the Moon is passing 
through the sign Pisces or the sign Scorpio. 
A growing Moon and above the horizon 
(i.e., the period from New Moon to the 
13 
first Quarter) would retard the assimil- 
tion of liquid fertilizers with the soil. 
The best time to collect seed is during a 
decreasing Moon, shortly before a New 
Moon. 
The pruning of plants, trees and shrubs 
should be performed from Full Moon to 
the last Quarter, otherwise the sap in the 
plants runs out and weakens their struc- 
turc too much. 
Wood that is cut while the Moon is 
growing and at the same time above the 
earth, (i.e. from New Moon to Full Moon), 
will be difficult to dry, because the sap is 
running upward in the tree during this 
period. But such wood, if given enough 
time to dry, will be of high quality. The 
drying should not be done in the bun, but 
m the shade, with the bark left intact. 
Wood cut at such times and used shortly 
afterwards in budding operations will soon 
get soft and wormy. Should it be desired 
to dry wood quickly, it must be cut during 
a decreasing Moon, the best suitable time 
being from the last Quarter to within three 
days of the New Moon. 
Harvesting of grain is best done shortly 
before a Full Moon, because drying is the 
quickest at this period. It is still more fa-
vorable if the Moon happens to be passing 
through the sterile signs of Capricorn, 
Gemini, Leo, Aries arid Aquarius. 
The best time to make hay is during a 
growing Moon and again while the Moon 
happens to pass through the dry signs of 
Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Capri' 
corn, and Aquarius. 
The gathering of fruit which should keep 
in storage is done best while the Moon is 
in its last Quarter and especially while it 
passes through the signs of Taurus, Leo, 
and Aquarius. 
The gathering of early apples is best 
done at Full Moon. 
Grapes and fruit whose quality depends 
on their lusciousness, and which are not 
stored for any length of time, should be 
picked around the New Moon period. 
Weeding and general cultivation of the 
 ground, like digging, ploughing and har- 
rowing should be done while the Moon is  
decreasing and in the Last Quarter. If  
weeds are picked while the Moon grows,  
these weeds will quickly take root again  
and grow, too. 
 SECONDARY RULES 
  THESE laws are primary laws,  
considering exclusively the Moon's phases,  
New Moon, First Quarter, Full Moon, Last  
Quarter. The subsequent laws are secon- 
daiy. 
Yet 
they 
are 
of 
great 
importance and show  the effect of 
the Moon as it  passes through the 
twelve signs or the  zodiac during one 
lunar month (i.e., during  one complete 
movement of the Moon  around the 
earth).   
Each sign of the zodiac has a 
certain power relating to the growth of 
plants. While the Moon passes through 
each of these signs, its action is colored 
and it takes up the power inherent in each 
sign and its application top practical 
gardening 
is 
as 
follows: 
 Aries.—While the Moon passes through  
the sign Aries, growth is very active and  
strong. All quick-growing plants must be  
seeded or planted during this time. 
 Taurus.—While the Moon passes  
through the sign Taurus, germination is  
somewhat slow, but the plants will become  
vigorous and sturdy and can be easily  
transplanted. Trees, including fruit trees,  
with the exception of apple trees, do well if  
started now. 
 Gemini.—While the Moon passes  
through the sign Gemini, all" planting and  
seeding work should be postponed. Only  
beans and peas can be set out during this  
time. 
 Cancer.—While the Moon passes  
through the sign Cancer, growth is gen- 
erally favored, this being a fertile and  
watery sign. All seeds will do well, es- 
pecially beets, turnips and potatoes. For  
peas it is not so good, as they are easily  
subject to rot below the ground. 
Leo.—While the Moon passes through 
this sign, nothing should be done in the 
garden. 
Virgo.—While the Moon is in the sign 
Virgo, evergreens may be seeded, propa- 
gated and transplanted. It is not a good 
time to seed or plant flowers, vegetables or 
deciduous plants. Pruning of trees and 
shrubs is favorable. Digging and cultivat- 
ing of the soil gives good results. 
Libra.—While the Moon passes through 
this sign, you have a perfect seeding and 
planting time. Flowers and grapes do es- 
pecially well and it is favorable for peas 
and beans. 
 
Scorpio.—While the Moon passes 
through Scorpio, plant and seed whatever 
you want. Very favorable for all those 
plants which have a strong taste or aroma, 
such as onions, horse radish, mustard. Root 
vegetables except potatoes get a splendid 
start. 
Sagittarius.—While the Moon passes 
through Sagittarius, flower seeds should be 
put out; all kinds of fruits which have a 
fine taste should be planted, such as rasp' 
berries, peaches, apricots. 
Capricorn.—While the Moon passes 
through the sign Capricorn, you have the 
perfect time for planting and seeding ever 
14 
greens and trees in general. The time fav- 
ors the slow growing and the dwarf plants. 
It is not so good for flowers, or for kernel 
or pit fruit, such as nuts or peaches. 
Aquarius.—While the Moon passes 
through this sign, no seeding or planting 
should be undertaken. Only manual work, 
preparation of the ground, plowing, har- 
rowing, digging should be performed. 
Pisces.—While the Moon passes through 
the sign Pisces, all seeding and planting will 
bring good results, unless the soil is very 
wet. In the latter case, the seeds are liable 
to damp-off, meaning that the young plants 
will die off shortly after germination for 
seemingly unexplainable reasons. 
CHOOSING A TIME 
J.HERE is a time for everything. 
Results are obtained by knowing when to 
act, when to do things. If you choose the 
wrong time, the best seeds either will not 
grow or they will produce stunted plants. 
You readily can see now why the gardener 
and farmer have an almanac. 
The average almanac brings you the 
Moon's Phases, which you need to ascertain 
its position compared to the position of the 
Sun. It also brings the signs in which the 
Moon is posited each day and the degree 
of that sign. Thus it is usually given for 
London, England, at noon for each day. 
The Moon moves every hour about one' 
half degree, or some twelve degree per day. 
The Moon's position as given in the al- 
manac as in London at 12 o'clock noon, 
equals for New York, Boston, Philadel- 
phia 7 A.M., for the Middle West 6 A.M. 
All positions in the almanacs are calculated 
in Standard Time. 
Thus an almanac enables you to calculate 
the favorable days and unfavorable days to 
seed and plant. Use only the favorable 
days to seed or plant and do not attempt 
the unfavorable days, for this will be detri- 
mental to your success. It is up to you to 
utilize these superior forces to the best ad' 
vantage, to grow bigger, better fruit, vege- 
tables, flowers and trees. 
THE SUN, GIVER OF ALL LIFE 
SOMEONE may say: What 
about the Sun? Is it not the Sun whose 
light, heat and rays cause plants to grow? 
Of course it is the Sun which makes plants 
grow. The Moon is merely a lieutenant, 
an assistant. But the laws of the Sun are 
so well known, that they hardly need any 
explanation. 
The Sun travels during one year's time 
apparently once around our earth. (Ac- 
tually, the earth travels around the Sun). 
The point of beginning is also taken from 
the star Gamma in the constellation Aries. 
The Sun in its yearly motion passes, like 
the Moon, through all the various signs of 
the zodiac, until after passing the twelfth 
sign, it returns to the star Gamma. The 
moment the Sun arrives at the star Gamma 
is called the Spring Equinox, or the begin-
ning of Spring. 
Just as we have four phases of the Moon, 
we have four "phases" for the Sun.' They 
are measured somewhat differently, but the 
effect is practically the same for the pur-
pose of our investigation as to the best 
time to seed and plant. 
We have four seasons: Spring and Fall, 
Summer and Winter. Spring and Fall start 
when the Sun reaches the equator; sum-
mer starts when the Sun is furthest north 
of the equator; Winter, when the Sun is 
furthest south of the equator. 
The days increase in length the moment 
the sun has passed the southernmost point, 
when we pass from Fall into Winter. This 
moment we call Winter Solstice. The 
length of the days increase until we reach 
the Summer Solstice, the moment when we 
pass from Spring into Summer. This period 
is comparable to that of the increasing 
Moon. From the Summer Solstice the 
length of the days decreases continually 
until we reach the Winter Solstice. This is 
comparable to the Moon's decreasing 
period, from Full Moon to New Moon. 
Just as the sap runs upward from New 
Moon to Full Moon, so does the sap run 
15 
upward from the beginning of Winter until 
the beginning of Summer, or from De-
cember 23rd to June 22nd, while during 
the balance of the year the sap in plants 
runs downward. The former is the major 
period of seeding and planting, the latter 
is the major harvesting period. A tempo-
rary overlapping of this rule occurs between 
June 23rd and July 23rd, when the second 
growth is made and the sap must run up-
wards to produce this growth. This part 
will  be explained later. 
To combine the influences of the Sun and 
the Moon, we must first of all consider the 
major influences of the Sun as the supreme 
giver of all life and growth. Consider the 
Moon as the Sun's assistant and thus sub-
ordinate its influences to those of the Sun. 
The days the Sun remains in the various 
signs of the zodiac are set forth herewith. 
Note that it takes the Sun about one month 
to pass through one sign, the Sun's motion 
being about one degree per day. 
The Sun is in Capricorn from January 
1st to January 20th. 
The Sun is in Aquarius from January 
21st to February 18th. 
The Sun is in Pisces from February 19th 
to March 20th. 
The Sun is in Aries from March 21st to 
April 20th. 
The Sun is in Taurus from April 21st to 
May 21st. 
The Sun is in Gemini from May 22rtd to 
June 21st. 
The Sun is in Cancer from June 22nd to 
July 23rd. 
The Sun is in Leo from July 23rd to 
August 23 rd. 
The Sun is in Virgo from August 24th 
to September 23rd. 
The Sun is in Libra from September 24th 
to October 23rd. 
The Sun is in Scorpio from October 24th 
to November 23rd. 
The Sun is in Sagittarius from Novem-
ber 24th to December 23 rd. 
The Sun is in Capricorn from December 
24th to December 31st. 
SUN INFLUENCES 
IN ORDER to show how the 
rules are actually followed, allow me to set 
forth a table for the Sun, similar to that 
already set up for the Moon. It will be 
observed how man actually does follow the 
dictation of nature. 
While the Sun is in Capricorn, from 
December 24th to January 20th, growers 
start evergreen cuttings under glass and do 
 
the grafting of young evergreens. Nursery 
men move big shade trees. 
While the Sun is in Aquarius, from 
January 21st to February 18th, general 
preparations for Spring work are made. 
While the Sun is in, Pisces, from Febru- 
ary 19th to March 20th, seeds are started 
in hot-beds and in protected frames of 
plants which later require transplanting. In 
the country, sugar maples are tapped be' 
cause the sap is running upward at good 
speed. 
While the Sun is in Aries, from March 
21st to April 20th, planting and trans- 
planting of all kinds of treed and ever- 
greens takes place; lawns are seeded; gar- 
dens are laid out and planted. Early vege- 
tables are sown in protected places. 
While the Sun is in Taurus, from April 
16 
21st to May 21st, planting and seeding is 
in full swing; all out-door seeds are 
started, especially vegetables and flowers. 
All deciduous plants get into leaves about 
April 21st. The actual growth of all trees 
starts. Most plants start to bloom shortly 
afterward. 
While the Sun is in Gemini, from May 
22nd to June 21st, planting and seeding 
work is stopped. The Spring growth of all 
plants suddenly stops; the only change vis- 
ible in nature at this period is the gradual 
hardening of the branchlets and twigs that 
grew during the previous month. 
While the Sun is in Cancer, from June 
22nd to July 23rd, plants start to make 
what is known as their second growth, 
which measures about half the growth made 
while the Sun was in Taurus. The seeding 
of late vegetable crops begins. Evergreens 
are started from seeds and from cuttings in, 
the open sand ground. 
While the Sun is in Leo, from July 24th 
to August 23rd, little work aside from 
weeding is done in the garden. 
While the Sun is in Virgo, from August 
24th to September 23rd, the planting of 
evergreens is resumed; evergreens and 
shrubs are pruned; the ground is being 
cultivated and weeds kept down. 
While the Sun is in Libra from Septem- 
her 24th to October 23rd, seeds that have 
to stay out during the winter are put out; 
lawns are seeded; planting and transplant- 
ing is in full swing for all sorts of plants. 
While the Sun is in Scorpio, from Octo-
ber 24th to November 23rd, the work of 
the previous month is continued; tulips, daf- 
fodils and hyacinths are planted. 
While the Sun is in Sagittarius, from 
November 24th to December 23rd, little 
can be done in the garden. Pruning of 
trees, shrubs and evergreens is performed. 
Fertilizing of the soil is done. 
While the Sun, is in Capricorn, from 
December 24th to January 20th, the same 
operations take place as the year previous. 
This cycle repeats year after year, age 
after age. 
17 
Biblical Astrology 
Why Is The Circle, or Cycle, "Larger" Than 
360 Degrees? Who Rules The Earth—Mars 
or Sun? 
By GEORGE BAYER 
(ID presenting this series of articles on Biblical 
Astrology, by Mr. Bayer, -we feel that we are 
rendering a distinct service to every astrologer 
and student who will take the trouble to experi- 
ment along the lines suggested by the author. 
Mr Buyer has found, by conscientious testing 
over a long period of years, that his biblical 
measurements work out almost unfailingly in the 
movements of stocks and commodities, as well as 
in the calculation of other types of astrological 
forecasts. The full scope of his findings is now 
available in two important works, which are de- 
scribed more fully in the department, "Among 
the Books." In this Issue of 
 
—Editor.) 
 
 STUDENTS who wish to 
delve deeply into the subject of astrology 
usually try to obtain some of the older 
texts. Of these there are a vast number, the 
single period from about 1200 to 1600 
A.D. having produced between two and 
three hundred volumes which are still 
extant, either in manuscript or printed 
form. 
In that 400-year period, as well as later, 
all scientific writing was done in Latin. 
Actual making of the manuscripts was done 
chiefly in the monasteries, or by professors 
of mathematics and astrology in the great 
universities and other centers of learning, 
as indicated on the title-pages of each vol-
ume. 
Those ancient writers, naturally, knew a 
great deal about the Bible and its contents, 
although it may be questioned as to 
whether they were always fully informed 
as to its meaning. Nowadays, very few 
people have the time or patience to read 
the Bible thoroughly, and more especially 
the Old Testament portion. That volume 
speaks of too many sons, daughters, broth-
ers, deaths, series of relatives or descen-
dants, which seemingly were mentioned in 
detail merely to £11 up the book. "With a 
few examples, I will try to show in this ar- 
ticle that the compilers of the Bible knew 
more about mathematics, cycles, laws of na-
ture, and other practical yet abstruse mat-
ters, than most of those living today will 
get to know. 
Astronomers, such as Herschel, who dis-
covered the planet Uranus, have sometimes 
believed that the circle is greater, or rather, 
that it consists of a great number of par-
ticular units, than 360 degrees. In his 
"Outlines of Astronomy," Herschel makes 
this assertion, although he does not actually 
mean what he says, because he did not 
recognize the great law that he had dis-
covered. So lightly did he regard this fact 
that he placed it, so to speak, in an obscure 
corner. My copy of his work is dated 
Philadelphia, Pa., 1849. Here is what he 
says: 
HERSCHEL'S 
CALCULATIONS 
“NOW, although it is 
true that the mean motions of no planets are 
exactly commensurate, yet cases are not 
wanting in which there exists an approach to 
this adjustment. For instance, in the 
case of Jupiter and Saturn, a cycle 
composed of five periods of Jupiter and 
two of Saturn, although it does not exactly 
bring about the same configuration, does so 
pretty nearly. 
"Five periods of Jupiter are "21,663 days, 
and two periods of Saturn, 21,519 days. 
The difference is only 146 days, in which 
Jupiter describes, on an average, 12 degrees, 
and Saturn" about 5 degrees; so that after 
the lapse of the former interval they will 
only be 7 degrees from a conjunction in the 
same parts of their orbit as before. 
If we calculate the time which will ex- 
actly bring about, on the average, three 
conjunctions of these two planets, we 
shall find to be 21,760 days, their 
synodic period being 7253.4 days. 
In this interval Saturn will have de- 
scribed 8 degrees 6 minutes in excess 
of  two sidereal revolutions, and 
Jupiter the  same angle in excess of five.      
Every third conjunction, then, will take 
place 8 degrees 6 minutes in advance of 
the preceding, which is near enough to 
establish, not, it is true, an identity with, 
but still a great approach to the case in 
question. The excess of action, for several 
such triple conjunctions (7 or 8) in 
succession. 
will lie the same way, and at each of them 
the elements of P's orbit and its angular 
motion will be similarly influenced, so as to 
accumulate the effect upon its longitude; 
thus giving rise to an irregularity of 
considerable magnitude and very long 
period, which is well known to astronomers 
by the name of the Great Inequality of 
Jupiter and Saturn. 
“The arc 8 degrees 6 minutes is 
contained 44 4/9 times in the whole 
circum- 
18 
ference of 360 degrees; and, accordingly, if 
we trace round this particular conjunction, 
we shall find it will return to the same 
point of the orbit in so many times 21,760 
days, or in 2648 years. 
"But the conjunction we are now con-
sidering is only one out of three. The other 
two will happen at points of the orbit 
about 123 degrees and 246 degrees distant, 
and these points will also advance by the 
same arc of 8 degrees 6 minutes in 21,760 
days. 
"Consequently, the period of 2648 years 
will bring them all around, and in that in- 
terval each of them will pass through that 
point of the two orbits from which we 
commenced; hence a conjunction (one or 
other of the three) will happen at that 
point once in one-third of this period, or in 
883 years; and this, therefore, is the cycle 
in which the Great Inequality would un-
dergo its full compensation, did the ele-
ments of the orbits continue all that time 
invariable. Their variation, however, is 
considerable in so long an interval; and, 
owing to this-cause, the period itself is pro-
longed to about 918 years." 
Tin planet 
That is what the great astronomer Her- 
schel has to say. A cycle, or rather the 
circle, has a length of 368 degrees 6 min- 
utes. One-third of that circle is 122 de-
grees 42 minutes. 
To follow the astrological path through 
the Bible is rather difficult, because of the 
peculiar idiom and phraseology which the 
writers employed. The maze of statements 
and stories, the different meanings and pur- 
poses of the various chapters, and especially 
the fact that everything referring to the 
measurement of degrees is based upon the 
circle of 36S degrees 6 minutes, and not 
upon the familiar circle of 360 degrees, in-
evitably produces confusion. Another fac-
tor which contributes to the difficulty of 
correct understanding is that the writers 
took it for granted that the reader was 
aware of the rules and terms employed. 
(It may be mentioned that the 360-degree 
circle is merely based upon convenience, 
360 being evenly divisible by every digit 
except 7.—Ed.) 
Ezra Agrees 
HAVING read Herschel on this 
subject, let us take an illuminating example 
from the Bible itself. In the Book of Ezra, 
chapter 2, verse 2, we read that the people 
of Israel came -with 11 leaders. Using the 
first 11 items as one unit and adding them 
together, we obtain the following results: 
Children of Parosh........................ 
2,172 
Children of Shphatiah .................. 
372 
Children of Arah ......................... 
775 
Children of Pahathmoab ..........  
2,812 
Children of Elam. ........................ 
1,254 
Children of Zattu.......................... 
945 
Children of Zaccai.......................... 
760 
Children of Bani............................ 
642 
Children of Bebai..........................  
623 
Children of Azgad........................  
1,222 
Children of Adenikam..................  
   666 
Children of 11 tribes total ............  12,243 
Note the first figure given—2,172—and 
its close identity with cyclic figure 21,760 
mentioned by Herschel. Note also the simi-
laxity of the total of the 11 tribes—12,243 
—and its absolute identity with the arc of 
122 degrees 43 minutes mentioned by Her- 
schel. It appears from this that Herschel 
"discovered" a cyclic measure that was 
commonplace knowledge among the an-
dents. 
The remainder of the "count" given in 
this portion of Ezra is not of interest here, 
since it deals with other cycles, such as that 
of 37 degrees 10 minutes, of 82 degrees 36 
minutes, which latter is shown as 81 de-
grees 96 minutes but amounts to identically 
the same thing. The total of these cycles 
is 242 degrees 29 minutes, which total 
should be kept in mind. 
Ezra, chapter 2, verse 65, states that the 
total number of men in the community was 
42,360. Leave off the 0 and you have 
42'36, or 42 degrees 36 minutes. 
19 
The Mean Sidereal Period 
FOR another illustration, let us 
turn to the Book of Numbers, chapter 26, 
from verse 7 on, where we find the follow-
ing count of "the people": 
Tribe of Reuben.......................... 43,730 
Tribe of Simeon.......................... 22,200 
Tribe of Gad................................ 40,500 
Tribe of Juda................................ 76,500 
Tribe of Isasher............................ 64,300 
Tribe of Sebulon..........................  60,500 
Tribe of Manasse..........................  52,700 
Tribe of Ephraim..........................  32,500 
Tribe of Benjamin........................ 45,600 
Tribe of Dan ...............................  64,400 
Tribe of Asser.............................. 53,400 
Tribe of Naphtali- ....................... 45,400 
601,730 
Taking 360 degrees from this figure, we 
obtain 242 degrees 13 minutes, which value 
is within minutes of being identical with 
that given in Ezra, noted above. It is to be 
noted also that the total given here (601,-
730) is approximately the same as the mean 
sidereal period in mean solar days of Nep- 
tune, which is 60,126% days. 
In Numbers 33:39, we find: "And 
Aaron was one hundred and twenty and 
three years old (123) when he died at 
Mount Hor." Aaron thus equals one 
third of the Jupiter cycle, which ends at a 
place in the horoscope called Mount Hor. 
How close the ancients came with their in-
equalities of Saturn and Jupiter may be 
seen in Chronicles I, chapter 15, wherein 
the number of men who carry the Ark is 
tabulated: 
Uriel   .......................................  
120 men 
Asaiah   ....................................  
220 men 
Joel   ........................................  
130 men 
Shemaiah  .................................  
200 men 
Eliel  .........................................  
80 men 
Amminadab...............................  
112 men 
862 men 
Inasmuch as we are to use these "men” 
20 
as degrees (and making use of the circle of 
J6S degrees 6 minutes), we get— 
120 degrees equals 
220 degrees equals 
130 degrees equals 
200 degrees equals  
80 degrees equals      
112 degrees equals  
882° 35' 11" 
Note how close this total comes to Her-
schel’s cycle of 883 years, in reference 
to the Great Inequality of Jupiter and 
Saturn. 
Reducing this value by two cycles, that 
is, by 736 degrees 21 minutes 36 seconds, 
we get a remainder of 146 degrees 14 min' 
vies 35 seconds, and by converting> this into 
our ordinary equivalents, we have 143 de- 
free 0 minutes 0 seconds. 
Returning now to our second illustra- 
tion, where we had a total of 601 degrees 
73 minutes—or 602 degrees 13 minutes, 
these totals being identical in value—we 
may add to it a bit of information from 
Genesis 8:14— 
The Deluge ended in the 601st year, in 
the second month, and on the 27th day of 
the month. This gives us a clue as to the 
length of the month. 601 years equal our 
601 degrees, plus one or another of the fol- 
lowing factors: 
1 month 27 days must equal: 
2 degrees 13 minutes, or 173', equalling 
2 degrees 53 minutes 
1 degree 73 minutes 
1 degree .73 (decimal) which would be 
I degree 44 minutes. 
Now, inasmuch .as 1 month 27 days 
equals 57 days, with the Moon's Node 
retrograding 3.177" per day, we may get 
a definite means of taking a measure. 
The Moon's Node 
WE   KNOW   that   the   lunar 
apogee "circulates" in 3232.575343 days,  
us check this value and see how it fits  
our 601,730 (illustration No. 2) or 
our illustration No. 5, which will be de-
veloped later in this article, in which the 
count is 603,550 according to the Bible, but 
which by actual count is 603,750. Let us 
also check how it fits the 601st year, the 
2nd month and 27th day—the End of the 
Deluge. 
123° 43' 36" 
224° 59' 56" 
132°   57' 14" 
204°  32' 40" 
81°     49'  4" 
114°  32' 41" 
At the rate of retreat of 3' 10.64" per 
day of the Moon's Node, we find it is car-
ried around the entire circumference of 
the zodiac or ecliptic in 6793.39 mean solar 
days, which equals about 18.6 years. 
Dividing 601,730 by 3232.57 days we 
obtain 18.615 years. 
The values dealt with in the last few il-
lustrations, therefore, have to do with the 
motion of the Moon's Node, and have no 
direct relation to the motion of Jupiter and 
Saturn. 
The Book of Numbers, chapter 2, gives 
another count, producing again an explana-
tion of the relationship between lunar 
apogee and Node under the guise of a 
count of population: 
Tribe of Judah.............................. 
74,600 
Tribe of Issachar.......................... 
54,400 
Tribe of Zebulon .........................  
57,400 
To the East, says the Bible, were 186,-
400 (186.600). 
Tribe of Reuben .........................  
46,500 
Tribe of Simeon...........................  
59,300 
Tribe of Gad...............................  
45,650 
To the South were 151,4 5 0. 
Levites—They were not to be counted 
(chapter 2:33). 
Tribe of Ephraim.........................     40,500 
Tribe of Manassas.........................     32,201 
Tribe of Benjamin .......................      35,400 
To the West were 108,100. 
Tribe of Dan ...............................     62,700 
Tribe of Ashur ...........................    41,500 
Tribe of Naphtali .......................     53,400 
To the North were 157,600. 
Adding all these totals together we find 
there were 603,750, although chapter 2:32 
says there were 603,550. 
I might mention many cases throughout 
21 
the Bible, where you will find times, ages,     never find the answer to this question, but 
etc, which contain the value of 368 de-     we cannot escape the fact that they did a 
grees 6 minutes or parts thereof, but no-     marvelously accurate job. 
where will you find an allusion to a circle 
(To be continued) 
of 360 degrees. 
It is my belief that if astrologers would 
use the angles suggested here, rather than 
the "convenient" angles commonly em- 
ployed, they would be able to attain a 
greater percentage of accuracy in their 
prognostications, especially when making 
progressions, for nativities as well as the 
Stock Market or the various commodity 
markets. Here is a list of the principal as-
pects converted into terms of Biblical 
measurements: 
Instead of 
use 
30°    .............................. 
30° 40' 54" 
45°    ............................. 
46° 01' 21" 
60°    .............................. 
61° 21' 48" 
90°    ............................. 
92° 2'    42" 
120°   ..............................  
122° 43' 36" 
135°.................................. 
138°    4' ' 3" 
(Actually, it is not 135 at all which 
causes trouble, but 
130° which equals .........   132° 57' 14" 
150°     ............................   153° 24' 30" 
180° .................................  184°    5' 24" 
and  upward   to   360) 
Of course, this same method should be 
followed in making use of, or computing, 
the ephemeral aspects. 
Students who take the trouble to experi- 
ment with these biblical measures, will 
shortly come to see that the strange word' 
pictures, enumerations, and family trees are 
in reality the records of planetary move- 
ments, or transits, and their influence upon 
the ancient "bull and bear markets," (or 
their equivalents), and upon the weather, 
panics, droughts, and economics. 
The close agreement of these ancient sta-
tistical astrologers with the findings of 
modern astronomers is surprising indeed, 
when we consider that, so far as we know, 
they had no tables of logarithms, no tele- 
scopes, or other essential equipment of the 
moderns.    How did they do it?    We may 
22 
Among the Books 
The Time Factors in the Stock Market or Trading in 
Stocks and Commodities—A "Different" Astrological 
System of Charting Market Movements. 
By GEORGE BRYER 
THE third edition, revised and 
enlarged, of one of the most interesting and 
instructive books on the stock, wheat, cot-
ton and other markets has just appeared. 
It was originally published at the bottom 
of the 1932 bear market and a statement 
appeared in that issue saying: We are 
jut now passed the bottom of the bear 
market, but very few 1x511 recognize that 
fact until we have advanced 20 and 30 
points in most stocks." At present, the 
author states, "We are coming within the 
next few months to a top of a bull 'swing 
from which an important reaction should 
develop, but very few people will recognize 
that fact until stocks have declined 20 and 
30 points." 
Part I1 shows six distinctive methods or 
ways to figure movements of stocks, wheat, 
cotton or other commodities and what must 
be expected of them Casts are developed 
in several high and low priced stocks. The 
theory that all motion is in the form of 
ellipses is explained, together with the 
size of the ellipses that must be used to 
measure wheat or stock values. Planetary 
influences such as can be read out of the 
ephemeris are explained to detect changes 
of trend, with special attention to the 
BibIical astrological laws. 
Planetary numbers in a new conception 
are given (hat assist one in detecting re-
sistance levels, i-e., places where stocks have 
to stop going up or where they have to 
stop going down because planets support 
them. 
The book is priced at $20, which is low, 
compared with the' value delivered     Origi- 
naI courses were sold as high as a thousand 
dollars. It is issued in a limited edition, 
in typewritten manuscript form, and fully 
illustrated. 
LESSONS IN BIBLICAL ASTROLOGY 
NEPTUNE, during his passage 
through Virgo, has opened up an avenue 
of approach to the subject of astrology that 
seems to bring astrology into a much more 
precise and exact science through research 
work done on the Bible by Mr. Bayer for 
several years. 
He has agreed to offer to our readers a 
series of courses on Biblical Astrology. The 
lessons are sent weekly and begin with 
Genesis I:1, continuing until the Bible is 
analyzed and its astrologica1 treasures ex- 
tracted. Many drawings accompany the 
lessons to clarify where the written word is 
not sufficient. Approaches on forecasting 
of human lives, events, prices of wheat, cot- 
ton and other matters are given and care- 
fully explained. The first lesson explains 
what "the earth" is in the Bible, who are 
the "Great Whales" is explained in lesson 
two, with many other facts that astound 
the readers of the Bible. And, what is 
more important, students are shown how to 
apply the laws practically. 
Lessons are $1.00 each, with a minimum 
of five lessons to be subscribed for at one 
time. Requests for these lessons should be 
sent to 
Magazine 
23 
Previewing the March 
Stock Market 
Including a Forecast of the Movements of 
Wheat and Cotton 
By GEORGE BAYER 
THE   27th   of   February, 1933, 
when  split-ups occur   (for the  benefit  of 
should still be remembered by many stock- 
small traders), rights to subscribe to addi- 
market traders.    It was a secondary low 
tional stock are offered,    when talk of a 
point, when everything looked blue and the 
"new era" is heard.    It is then that you 
banks throughout the country were on the 
should liquidate all your stocks and let the 
verge of closing their doors. 
other fellow    worry about   the "profits." 
I still retain a copy of the wire which 
Just as bull markets are not made in a 
I sent out at that time telling my clients to 
week, nor in a year,  the decline  that is 
buy stocks right then.    Everyone at that 
scheduled   according  o   astrological   laws 
time believed the "end" was near.    They 
will not develop   very rapidly,    either, 
should have been thinking just the opposite 
We shall not have a breakdown like we 
—the beginning was here.                    
had in 1929, but we are being groomed for 
Steel was then selling around 26, Case 
a major reaction in a bull market.    This 
at 32 Chrysler at 9, Spiegel May Stern at 
means that in the due course of time, there 
1, and oodles of stocks went begging be- 
should be a decline of perhaps 50 per cent 
tween 1/8 and3/8 that are parading at pres- 
of what has been gained since March  18, 
ent in the 50 and 60-dollar class. 
1935. 
Of course, the month of February should 
At the time of this writing (December 
have shaded prices somewhat, because the 
19, 1936), few people believed that we had 
bullish spirit should be abating. However, 
a top on December 14, 1936, as analyzed in 
four years after the low made on February 
my previous forecasts. But now that we 
27, 1933, the market should have become 
are down 6 points from that top, they can 
strong once more, although many seem to 
see it themselves—which is just too bad for 
think we are going further down. Before 
them to be so late in recognizing the facts 
they get a clear picture of what is happen- 
that can be seen by astrology a long time 
ing, prices should rebound vigorously and 
before they become manifest. 
even make brand-new highs in the averages 
The reason for this decline, as printed in 
and in many stocks by March 9. This 
the newspapers of December J 9, was some 
should be followed by a little sell-off to 
trouble with rail income being cut, or what- 
March 15, only to bounce up once more, 
ever they called it. The fact is that plane- 
bettering the high of March 9 on or before 
tary forces said Down—and the same 
March 25. 
planetary forces found an agency for put- 
Astrological laws show that this will be 
ting them down, 
the Last Gasp, the very end of one of the 
_  _   
"legs" of the bull market. The movement                                    A  T o p  I s  C o m i n g  
between March 9 and 24 is a soap bubble, 
ANYHOW, the Bible says: March, 1937 
in which all the lambs become entangled in 
—specifically between March 9 and 24— 
stocks, when news is bullish to the extreme, 
will be the market top for a long time to 
24 
come.   This does not necessarily mean that 
tion of the Bible concerning the movements 
one should rush out and sell everything on        of wheat during this period.)  This move- 
the first  day of March.    You would be 
ment  could result in a 20¢ decline in wheat 
wrong in doing that,  for there is a final       during these six days, 
explosion, the superbullishness, to contend 
March  28  should  see  the  end  of  the 
with which is liable to push the Dow Jones 
avalanche, and after all those who bought 
Industrials clear up to the 198 figure, which 
wheat at the top have had to sell out, or 
I predicted long ago. 
after the  margin-clerk has taken  care  of 
But should it miss that figure, between 
the matter, we shall turn about and move 
March 9 and March 24, do not wait for        up again as we go into April, 
it to come—time and dates are more im- 
A more detailed analysis discernible at 
portant  than price.    The cycle ends and 
this time shows that we should move up- 
nothing can be done about it.    Let some- 
ward from March 1 to 4, have a reaction 
one else hold the bag.    I do not like to 
to the 13 th, with a final rush upward to 
touch on "short selling" for this subject is 
the  21st   or  22nd,   and   then   the  sudden 
treated best in personal consultations or in 
debacle to March 28, followed by the turn 
weekly,   dose-range  analyses.    To discuss 
and move upward to the end of the month, 
short selling in articles such as these might 
Rebecca, of the Bible, is the cause of this 
lead   the   inexperienced   trader  into  deep 
sheer decline in wheat from March 21-22 
water.                                                       
over to March 28.    According to my as- 
March   24   should   become   the  turning 
trological analysis, as explained in the Feb- 
point for a downward swing which should         ruary   issue   of 
continue into the month of April.       
 Magazine, Rebecca "dies" during this pe- 
 riod and is buried on the 28th-    This ac- 
FORECAST FOR WHEAT            tually means that the Rebecca cycle for 
Wheat also made a low on February  
wheat ends on March 21-22, and a new 
27, 1933—touching about 48¢ a bushel. At         cycle begins six days later. 
                      
$1.48 or higher, wheat must now look very 
FORECAST FOR COTTON  
good to the public, and this price should 
COTTON should have advanced from 
prevail when we enter the month of March, 
its present selling price of 12.01   (Decem- 
1937.    I  am glad  that wheat has finally 
ber 19,   1936)   for July option some 200 
come up into the higher brackets, for when 
points.   That is, it should be selling around 
it is three times the price of a few years 
13.90 or 14.10 as we enter the month of 
ago, we can no longer call it cheap. 
March.      This   price   is   not   quite   high 
Newspapers  should  be  full   of  reports 
enough,   and   it   should   keep   on   moving 
about  scarcity  of  wheat  as  we  get  into 
slowly  higher  until   that  critical  date  of 
March.     Probably  the Argentine crop is 
March 21-22, when a top must be expected, 
burnt out, Poland  may refuse to export 
to be followed by a sheer decline, or at 
wheat or rye to us, more erosion in the 
least by an important reaction.    It should 
Middle West may be reported—and eager 
be sold at that time and repurchased on 
buyers   of  wheat   will   drive   prices  still     weakness March 28 or 29. 
higher, a little bit every day from the begin- 
What is the actual event that brings, or 
ning of March until the 21st or 22nd of 
should bring, a general decline as soon as 
the month. 
we enter Spring?   I have been wondering 
However, a bombshell will  explode on 
myself.     But  we should  not  bother  too 
the 23rd, possibly on the 22nd, and down 
much about what it is so long as we can 
we will -move so fast that no one will be 
look into  the future and determine with 
able to catch his breath before March 28.          confidence that it will come. 
(This-is purely an astrological interpreta- 
 
 
25 
Previewing the April 
Stock Market 
Including a Forecast of the Movements of Wheat 
and Cotton 
By GEORGE BAYER 
In   one   of   the   German   calendars,   or 
stock, you may just as well substitute the 
almanacs,   for   1937,   we   find   an.   article 
super-being Man, so that you will get the 
dealing  with  sleep   and   dreams,   by   Dr. 
drift  of  the "discovery"  in terms  suited 
Phil Albert May.   The article is illustrated          to your own interests, 
with two drawings and, to me at least it is 
Stocks, wheat, cotton and all other com- 
made more interesting because reprint or 
modities or entities,  including Man,  have 
partial reprint is strictly forbidden. 
two    phases-—bull    movements    (wakeful- 
Of  course,  everyone who  has  recently 
ness), and bear movements (sleep), that is, 
visited   Germany   knows   the   country  is 
positive and negative consciousness, 
plastered all over with signs declaring that 
As we study the actual  movements of 
"It  is   forbidden"   to  do  this  and   to  do 
stocks during bull movements, or wakeful- 
that,   and   that   probably   most   of   these 
ness, we can  always distinguish between 
signs are rather meaningless.  On the other 
three or four distinct swings, whereby each 
hand, if this article in the almanac  con- 
one  is  successively higher  until   the   last 
tained anything new or original, it would 
swing represents  the extreme top of the 
not be fair to go against the expressed wish 
bull  movement.     The  same  movement  is 
of the originator, because to do so would          exemplified by Man. 
be plain theft. 
In  the morning, Man has to wake up 
But   many   astrologers   in   the   United 
gradually, and around  10 A. M. he seems 
States have known for a long time all that 
fully awake—first stage of bull movement, 
the German author represents as his dis- 
Around lunch time, he reaches another 
covery, and perhaps a little besides.    But 
stage and has a "sinking spell," when he 
to  avoid  a  profitless dispute,  I  shall  ex- 
is compelled to eat in order to keep going 
plain the detail of his "discovery" and add          into the next phase. 
our even newer findings, in a form quite 
During the afternoon, which is a com- 
different than that which he uses. My 
paratively longer period than the morning, 
book, "Time Factors in the Stock Market," 
he goes along fairly well, until the eve- 
dealt with the same ideas—and the first        ning meal is required to keep him going, 
edition of this book was issued June 12, 
After dinner, he usually feels better, at- 
1932. I did not use the terms "dream" 
tends shows or seeks his pleasures—he is 
and "sleep" in my book, but applied the     then in the extreme bull movement. 
"discovery" to Stocks—which are a trifle 
But as midnight approaches, a bear mar- 
more material. It makes little difference 
ket begins for his body. He starts seeing 
whether we call a subject a stock or a 
things double, he begins to yawn, becomes 
man or wheat, or what you wish; each of 
disinterested in what happens, dozes off 
them is a living being and is, therefore sub- 
gradually into sleep, then has one more 
ject to sleep and dreams. 
          awakening—the   twelve-foot  walk   to  his 
You will therefore please bear in mind 
bed, and for him the bear market is then 
that each  time I refer to wheat,  cotton,              in full swing. 
26 
Should he be overtired (which happens 
was not accustomed awakened him mo- 
when his previous day's bull movement 
mentarily and he was semi'conscious until 
was subject to too many ups and downs), 
February 24, 1931. Maybe he had a glass 
he will not be able to fall asleep quickly, 
of water then, but almost at once went 
but will move about in bed, turning at 
back to sleep until in June and July, 19-31, 
times, not wanting to give in to sleep, until 
when the so-called "Moratorium Rally" 
finally he is "gone." However, a close 
brought him halfway back to conscious- 
watch over him will reveal that now and 
ness, and this dragged him over into late 
then he seems to be awakening when un- 
August, when he fell asleep once more, 
necessary noises (uncommon noises to 
From then on, there were a few partial 
him) disturb his sleep. He occasionally 
awakenings, but the period may be re- 
turns over on the plus side of. conscious- 
garded as the "deep sleep." Our Stock- 
ness and may ask for a drink of water or 
man got a slight awakening shock when 
a sandwich, but next morning if you ask 
England went off the Gold Standard. He 
him about his peculiar appetite at 2:30 
seemingly looked up what happened, 
A. M., he will scarcely remember it. 
turned around and went back to sleep, and 
After all these interruptions, he falls 
this sleep continued until July 8, 1932. 
into the real, deep sleep, from which ten 
The real deep sleep of the Stock Market 
horses and five alarm clocks are required to 
consumed just ten months, 
arouse him. His house could be carried off 
It must have been an alarm clock that 
at this time without bothering him. But 
went off at that time (Jupiter trine Uranus, 
this deep sleep continues for only a cer- 
to be exact), because he seemingly jumped 
tain amount of time, then he will gradu- 
out of bed with both feet, washed up and 
ally but surely (provided he did not 
was spic and span by September 10, 1932. 
"die") come back to consciousness, even 
However, an awakening by an alarm clock 
without alarm clocks. Parenthetically, I 
usually is not good until the day is well 
consider alarm clocks a great evil, because 
advanced. In fact, on arriving for break- 
Nature will awaken you, provided you 
fast on September 10, 1932, he did not 
obey Nature when she tells you to retire. 
feel   any  too   good.     A   sharp   break   oc- 
With this new awakening, our Man is 
curred in the Stock Market,  and a few 
back  to  consciousness   and  has described 
days later he seems to have required an 
one full day, or cycle. 
aspirin, followed by a rally.    But as with 
                                                                  all stimulants, this rally was brief. 
When Stocks Sleep and Dream 
Our stock-man got fainting spells oc- 
These same cycles  govern stocks.  Sep- 
casionally thereafter, and the bank holiday 
tember   3,   1929,   was   11   P.M.   for  the 
—March, 1933—saw stocks back to nearly 
Stock-man.    From his ultra or plus con- 
where they had left off in July, 1932.   Of 
sciousness he dived  down into minus or 
course,  our  Stock-man  was   fully  awake 
sub-consciousness on November 13,  1929. 
now in spite of his sinking spells (he prob- 
He picked himself up again, "walking the 
ably was having his breakfast), and when 
twelve feet" over to April 17, 1930. Then 
the banks reopened he felt like a million 
he really fell asleep, declining steadily, but         dollars. 
on  May  5,   1930,   he  began  to  awaken 
About lunch time  (which according to 
slightly, calling for  a sandwich May  31 
our comparative count  occurred between 
that  year,   and   taking   his   time  with  it 
July 8 and 18, 1933, the Stock-man over- 
until September 10, 1930, when he finished 
ate,   hence   he   did   not   feel   good   until 
and   went  back   into   a  sub-consciousness 
March   18,   1935.    By  that  time he had 
which lasted until December 17, 1930. 
passed through the afternoon  of his life 
At that time,   a  "noise"  to which he 
and he was approaching supper time, in 
fine fettle.   During 1936, he attended sev-
eral shows and even had a party or twc 
but as we look at him now  (January 23 
1937), it appears that it is nearing bed 
time for him—it is once more 11 P. M., 
and all is not entirely well. 
Coming back to our German con-
temporary, he discusses only sleep and does 
not mention wakefulness, although the 
period of wakefulness to most of us ap-
pears to be the most important. A com-
plete cycle is first positive  (wakefulness), 
SCORPIO in THE APRIL MARKET 
 
then negative (sleep). Our friend seems 
to regard sleep as a unit which is com-
plete in itself, whereas the complete unit 
is wakefulness and sleep. He did, how-
ever, catch onto the fact that the extreme 
depth of sleep comes at the time the 
alarm clock "goes off." We see this fact 
more clearly, however, by looking at the 
movements of the Stock Market. When 
nobody wants stocks, that is the time to 
buy them, my philosopher friend. . . . 
And we keep more charts on stocks and 
commodities, measuring their daily move-
ments very accurately, so that your two 
roughly drawn illustrations seem rather 
crude. 
A Correction, Sir! 
But here is something on which you re 
quire enlightenment, my friend. You dis-
tinguish  between   dayworker  and  night- 
27 
worker, between farmer and brain-worker. 
The latter do not, as you insist, spend 
their "valuable morning hours" in sleep. 
In the Stock Market, we must distinguish 
between the Early Movers and the Late 
Movers. American Can is an early mover, 
and so is UV, while Steel and Mont-
gomery Ward, as well as the Utilities, are 
late movers. 
AC was selling at 120 back in 1933, 
when Steel and Montgomery Ward were 
still struggling to come awake. UV made 
its high about February 18, 1935, and has 
been going down ever since, while El. 
Power 6? Light was selling at iy2. The 
latter moved up to 84 since (he must have 
over-slept the valuable morning hours!). 
Our German friend even declares that the 
night-worker has a "naturfremde Gestalt," 
which means, his acts are against Nature's 
regulations. This is wrong. I had rather 
have bought EL Pfd in March, 1935, at 
iy2 than to have bought the morning-
worker UV smack at the top. (Some of 
my clients made commitments in EL Pfd 
between iy2 and 5 in March, 1935.) 
How can we distinguish "morning-
workers" from "night-workers"? 
The German writer says: "Just test 
yourself and find out." I will show you 
a better way—one which is subject to a 
rule. The secret lies in the declinations of 
the planets, and especially the declination 
of the Sun. When you have a lot of 
planets in North Declination, i.e., if you 
were born in Summer, you will be more 
sleepy in Winter. When most of your 
planets have South Declination, then you 
will be more sleepy in Summer. When, 
however, you are born in the Spring or 
Fall, you are pretty well balanced and 
thus you should require an average, normal 
amount of sleep the year round. 
The same rule applies to Stocks. Those 
stocks "born" in June, July or August 
move in an entirely different cycle from 
those born in December and January. One 
group is composed of the late movers, the 
other is made up of early movers.   Those 
born between these extremes usually move 
with the general trend. 
I cannot help wondering what our Ger-
man    friend    thinks   of   the    "quadrant" 
sleepers.    I have in mind the sailors who 
sleep four hours and work four hours al-
ternately  throughout the twenty-four.   It 
would be interesting to know me category 
into which he fits these workers. 
I would suggest that such readers as may 
wish to plot the cycles of stock move-
ments should use the stock averages, such 
as those furnished by Dow-Jones, with a 
zero line, running the September top of 
1932. All values above this zero line show 
that we are in a bull market, while all 
values below this line indicate we are in a 
bear market. The value is approximately 
90 D-J. 
Readers 
who desire to possess a chart 
such as that just described, and which is 
made accurately, may write to Messrs. 
Prentice & Brady, 125 Broadway New 
York City, enclosing a stamped, self-ad-
dressed envelope. Just say that you would 
like to have a copy of their chart of 
stock averages. There is no charge except 
the postage. 
This chart will show you at a glance the 
actual cycles of wakefulness and sleep in 
stocks. With it, you will begin to use 
your reasoning and imagining faculties, so 
that shortly you will be marking in details 
upon the sheet in the manner I have tried to 
explain. That is, you will imagine that one 
complete cycle—one bull market and one 
bear market—are the same as one day in 
the life of a man. 
You will enter on the chart all the normal 
habitual movements of the "man,"  from 
the moment of retiring in the evening 
through 
his 
sleep, 
the 
awakening 
in 
morning, the beginning of his daily duties, 
with the many hopes and disillusionments 
(rallies and declines), with his meals at 
fairly equal, recurring intervals, until he 
comes back again at night, after having 
been out to "faire la noce," as the 
28 
Frenchmen likes to say. This cycle you 
distribute from the top of September, 
1929, letting it end in March, 1937. 
Do not be too particular about the exact 
minute Mr. Stock-man had his break-fast, 
nor as to what constituted his meal; look 
at it in a broad sense and you will no 
doubt find that there is a   great deal of 
sound sense buried in all this seeming non-
sense. 
Sees a Decline Ahead 
At any rate, my own astrological calculations 
show that we are getting ready to retire, 
i.e., we have made all we can and the 
market must decline very soon. This is 
not intended to "throw a scare into 
you,” or into any other person. It is not 
merely my opinin, because I have learned not 
to have opinions. It is law, astrological 
law. No one has to heed it. You can all 
hold your stocks, if you wish to, or you can 
buy all the stocks that are offered for sale.     
You are the final judge as to what you 
shall do. 
But, if astrology means anything, I have 
a right to broadcast what it indicates to 
me regarding the trend of the market. 
Astrological indications are not constantly 
bullish;  they do not indicate permanently 
higher 
prices, 
as 
do 
the 
so-called   
"economic forecasts” which consistently   
feed the public with hopes, as they did  
from 1929 straight through to July, 1932, 
when finally they had to be right   for   once, 
although your stocks may have dropped 
meantime from 199 to 2, as with AFW. 
Astrology indicates at this time that 
we should get a fairly severe decline, 
but not as sharp and wicked as in 1929, 
although many people more than likely 
will be hurt again. The high-margin 
requirement, as good as it sounds, can easily 
prove disastrous to the many who feel so 
entirely safe with their 55% margin that a 
20% decline does not bother them, nor a 
30%, nor even a 35%. But as the indicated 
decline may go to 40%, these folks will 
probably sit up, look and listen—but then- 
most 
of their "safe" margin will be gone, which 
means they would have lost less on a 10% 
margin, because the margin clerk would 
have eliminated them long before. 
The best feature of our forecast for April 
is that the actual decline, according to 
natural laws, is still one month in the 
future, and it may not even begin in 
April. On the contrary, the market should 
bulge upward once more, beginning April 
3, and purchases will be in order for 
yet another rise that, however, by several 
points should fail to reach the highs of 
Mars, "the Ides of March," as we may 
well call them. From April 11 right on 
into the first few days of May there 
should, be a sidewise movement with very 
narrow fluctuations and probably little 
volume, because the bulk of the selling 
should have occurred in mid-March at 
higher levels. 
Technically, small volume below a top 
area indicates danger of lower prices. You 
should watch closely the twenty days be-
tween April 11 and April 30. If this 
should happen, you will know that this 
forecast  is correct in its main trend, and it 
will then be up to you to hold the bag or 
to let go of it. I had rather be without 
the bag. 
Now let me draw the attention of as-
trology students, and of those who keep 
charts, that every sign of the zodiac is 
impressed deeply upon each stock chart. 
At the beginning of 1937, we started to 
make the sign of Scorpio. Its two "legs" 
you will be able to see as soon as we reach 
April 2-3. After these two "legs," ac 
cording to "Adam Riese," we will get the 
sting of Scorpio. But before we get that 
"sting," we must make some sort of a 
halfmoon upside down, with the points at 
the lower side of the picture. This is 
technically called a "roll-over." 
The astrology student, or those who 
wish to become students, should make a 
nice big sign of Scorpio and see how it 
fits into the picture thus far. If you 
chance to obtain your 
29 
Magazine early, you will be just 
at the first leg, with the second in the 
making, so you will have plenty of time to 
watch it develop and thus prepare for the 
"sting," which some people will make very 
deep and with a hook at the end. We 
shall likely get this hook later on to com- 
plete the sign of Scorpio. 
Now, after having done a lot of ex-
plaining to clarify the April situation, we 
can proceed with more definite statements. 
That is, we must prepare for the last small 
pull-up in stocks during April, then ex-
pect the "sting" during May, while the 
"hook" is due in mid-June. It will be 
well to remember these statements. 
FORECAST FOR WHEAT 
WHEAT should have had quite a jolt 
the last few days of March, but it will be 
trying for a comeback during the month 
of April. The cream in wheat is gone 
for a time, and all we can expect is a so-
called secondary rally, which should find 
prices at the end of the month con-
siderably higher when compared with 
prices at the beginning of April. 
A temporary high should be made 
April 14, followed by a narrow sidewise 
movement which will continue until about 
the 24th, then rising again until the 29th, 
which should become an important top. 
Conservative traders in wheat may take 
a long position at the beginning of .the 
month and liquidate April 29. 
FORECAST FOR COTTON 
INDICATIONS point to a strong up-
ward movement in cotton beginning with 
April, with a top around the 13th or 14th, 
followed by slowly declining levels which 
will be scarcely perceptible at first This 
may even appear to be a sidewise move- 
ment till the end of the month. The same 
high prices may be reached about the 13 th 
or 14th as prevailed around March 22, 
but, should these high prices fail to de- 
velop, with prices recovering only two-
thirds of the ground lost since March 22. 
30 
Biblical Astrology 
The Importance of Mars In Human Affairs 
By GEORGE BAYER 
THE astro-Bible student is 
struck at once by the fact that the inspired 
writers actually credited the Sun with 
having slight influence upon the affairs 
of this earth or its inhabitants. Instead, great 
emphasis was placed upon the planet Mars 
as the Giver of Life. This view is presented 
many times throughout the Book. 
In Exodus IX:29-32, we read; "And 
Moses said unto him (Pharaoh) : As soon 
as I am gone out of the city, I will spread 
abroad my hands unto the Lord, and the 
thunder shall cease, neither shall there be 
any more hail, that thou mayest know ,that 
the earth is the Lord's. 
 
"But as for thee, and thy servants, I 
know that ye will not yet fear the Lord 
God. 
"And the flax and the barley was smit-
ten; for the barley was in the ear, and the 
flax was bolled. 
"But the wheat and the rye were not 
smitten; for they were not grow up." 
Who, astrologically, is Moses? Who is 
Pharaoh? Where is the city which Moses 
left? And where did he spread his hands 
unto the Lord? 
The Bible declares that as soon as Moses 
spreads his hands unto the Lord, the thun-
der shall cease, as we11 as the hail. Flax 
and barley were smitten, but wheat and 
rye were not. The reason given, that they 
were not "grown up," is merely figurative. 
If it was not important to mention the fact 
that they were not smitten, then what was 
the reason for mentioning it at all? 
Astrologically, Moses is a specific planet 
which rotates in the zodiac, and which at 
the time of the events described was "liv 
ing" in a zodiacal sign which belongs to 
Pharaoh.   Pharaoh also is a specific planet. 
The "city" is a specific point in the zodiac, 
which point the planet Moses has just 
transited. 
Moses reaches with his hands unto the 
Lord, which also is a specific planet, and, 
when vie construct a picture (see accom-
panying diagram), we get an idea of what 
actually transpired. 
The meaning of the next statement is: 
As soon as the planet represented by 
Moses touches with his hand (it is always 
the right hand) that planet which is repre-
sented by the Lord, the price of the flax 
and of barley will rapidly decline, while 
neither the wheat nor the barley will be 
affected and their price will remain where 
it is. 
By the word flax, as used in the Bible, 
we understand not merely flax but also cot- 
ton. This was illustrated very clearly 
when, during the summer of 1936, cotton 
made its top on July 10 and then had a 
big decline, while wheat and rye rose an 
extra 30 cents. 
So far, I have conducted my researches 
without assistance and it is but recently 
that I have felt justified in passing on to 
other students the astrological data which 
I have unearthed, particularly in the matter 
of discovering what it is that makes the 
markets go up and down, what is the cause 
of the great panics, and how to calculate 
their approach long in advance. 
Putting these findings briefly, I may say 
that these "causes" are Abram, Isaac, Jacob 
and Joseph, and all the other biblical cycles 
which "begin" and "end,"—the bottoms 
and tops—in stocks, human lives, in wheat 
and cotton, in business, and in every other 
thing that comes under the rulership of 
Mars. 
31 
Planetary Determinations 
A Translation of The 21st Book of Jean Morin 
de Villefranche, 17th Century Astrologer 
By GEORGE BAYER and DAVID LEE NORMAN 
Foreword 
ONE of the most valuable of the older 
works on astrology is "Aslroloput Gallica," by 
Jean Morin de Villefranche, which was published 
in Paris in 1003. This work consists or twenty- 
six volumes, from which veritable library we 
have chosen the 21st volume for translation and 
presentation to English-speaking students through 
the pages of 
Magazine. 
Dr. Morin was one of the first astrologers to 
determine scientifically the true underlying prin-
ciples of the subject which he BO ably and con-
scientiously advocated. The care and method 
with which he delved deeply into many of the 
problems which, nearly three hundred years later, 
■still confront the astrological student, and -,the 
results which this research enabled him to record 
in his published works, show him to have been one 
of the most profound, talented and scientific 
exponents that astrology has ever known. 
The 21st volume of " Aslroloput Gallica," here 
presented, includes the study of "determinations," 
on which depends the direction in which the activ-
ity of the astrological Influences will make them-
selves felt, and the quality of the effects which 
these influences produce. 
It seems expedient to briefly discus the subject of 
"determinations" before setting forth on our 
journey with Dr. Morin, that the reader may know 
something of what may be expected in the present 
installment and la those which axe to follow. 
Observation of the effects which characterize 
the activity of a given astral (planetary) radia-
tion reveals that underneath an "essential deter-
mination" (which finds expression in the funda-
mental properties of that radiation), there is man-
ifest always an "accidental determination." This 
latter is either general (when the exterior con-
ditions deciding the quality of the contingent 
planetary action are common to everything sub-
lunary) ; or it Is particular (when it becomes 
unique to a single individual or Integrated group of 
individuals). 
When the "accidental determination" Is general, 
it relates to the quality of the planetary influence, 
nnd the conglomeration of exterior conditions from 
which it derives constitutes what Morin calls the 
'•celestial state" of the planet from which the con-
sidered radiation emanates. 
When the accidental determination Is Individual, 
it manifests itself through its effects upon a par-
ticular category, and the condition which decides 
the character of this category is called the "terres-
tiul state" of the planet. 
For a precise understanding of the effects which 
the celestial agents can produce in nature (that 
is, their "sublunary" effects), it in necessary to 
keep count of the possibilities which the sublunary 
beings afford for the realization of these effects, 
whether animate or Inanimate beings, by virtue of 
their accidental dispositions—briefly, what may be 
called their receptivity to the operation of such 
& planetary agency. 
The ensuing translation will show that the 
theory of "astrological determinations" established 
by Morin contains the key to all interpretation of 
nativities. Before Morin, this part of astrology 
was taught only in aphorisms applying to indi-
vidual cases.    Morin had the merit of introducing 
into this a method, a system, and thus madea 
long stride toward establishing astrology as a co- 
ordinated, demonstrable science. 
PREFACE By 
JeanMorin de Villefranclie 
ANCIENT 
astrologers 
fre-
quently established their judgments upon 
purely fictitious bases which were foreign 
to the nature of the things with which 
they were dealing, or on certain elements 
which really could have been found in the 
natural order, but which they did not 
understand or clearly recognize, must less 
find susceptible of precise application. 
In the first class of factors commonly 
employed by ancient astrologers we may 
place terms, decans and faces, then the 
ascription of properties of a special nature 
to different degrees of the Ecliptic, then 
the yearly progressions, the monthly and 
the diurnal progressions, besides all the 
other vain fictions introduced into astrol-
ogy by the Chaldeans, Egyptians and 
Arabs. 
In the second class we must count the 
"universal significators" which Cardan 
called "significatores secundum substan- 
tium," whose study and use have been the 
principal occupation of most astrologers. 
It must be admitted that the Sun pos-
sesses, naturally, a closer analogy to the 
honors, monarchs, presidents, the father, 
etc., than to such inferior considerations as 
farmers, children, etc. It is admitted also 
that the same analogy exists between Jupi- 
ter and riches, between Venus and the 
wife, between Mercury and the intellect, 
and so on. 
32 
But it is absurd to argue or pretend from 
the moment of  birth  and  upon  the  geo- 
this that the Sun, for example, is the uni- 
graphical location of  the  place  of birth, 
versal significator of the father or of the 
These elements vary with the individual 
honors in any nativity, or to draw from the 
and are therefore peculiar to that individ- 
Sun a judgment of the father or of the         ual alone. 
honors that await the subject during his 
In a particular nativity, therefore, it is 
life, whatever the astrological house may 
evident that a planet does not signify "any 
fee that this planet occupies or of which it 
old thing" nor all things together, nor does 
may be the ruler in the chart. 
it produce at once all the effects which it 
As a matter of fact, the celestial influ- 
is  capable   of  producing,   but   only  those 
ences are universal causes.    As such they 
to   which   it   is   specially   "determined" 
do not manifest, by themselves, any prefer- 
through attendant conditions, which are to 
ence to act more upon one individual than         be explained in this work, 
upon another.    Thus they become deter- 
minable for the individual.                                                               PART I 
                      
There are several ways in  which  the 
celestial influxes (planetary influences) can 
ACCORDING   to   the  opinion 
be determined,   which  reduce  themselves           of philosophers, the celestial bodies repre- 
into principal ways: 
 sent universal causes. Thus, each univer- 
1) Determination through the position 
sal cause though itself indifferent to the 
of  the   planets   in   the   celestial   figure, 
  accidental   effects   which   it   produces,   is 
depending upon the astrological house, and 
nevertheless susceptible of "determination" 
2) Through their dominations, meaning 
toward these effects more than it is toward 
the circumstances  in  which  a  planet is 
other   effects.     Its   general   function   in 
found in the zodiacal sign which occupies 
nature is therefore found to be fixed from 
the house in question, iii one of the three 
the beginning by its essential constitution 
essential dignities:                                                 or constituency. 
Thus,   the   Primary   Heaven,   through 
A—Rulership            B—Exaltation 
essential determination, possesses the power 
 
to give existence to any and  all  natural 
C—Trigonocracy 
                           
phenomena in every part or the universe, 
It follows from this that the planets act 
and to interweave these phenomena with 
through their influence upon all beings 
and through other causes of inferior or sub- 
born into this sublunary or terrestrial 
ordinate order. It therefore possesses the 
world, according to the special manner or 
power to influence and operate all the 
receptivity which is to be determined by 
natural forces and thus constitutes, in its 
each individual being for itself. In other 
entirety, the true physical First Cause, 
words, the planetary influence upon a par- 
Just as the Primary Heaven, as a whole, 
ticular individual will depend primarily 
rules all things whatsoever, each sign of 
upon the conditions which are present at 
the Zodiac (or section of the Primary 
the moment of his birth, as between the 
Heaven), and each of the planets, possesses 
planets and the astrological houses, and 
in itself a pre-determined virtue or power 
these conditions will be based upon the 
through its "essential constitution," that is, 
bodily position of the planets, on their 
through its own particular quota of pri- 
aspects, or on  their domination of such             mary elements. 
and such a house, or on their relations with 
An exact knowledge of all the proper' 
the ruler of that house.   The condition of 
ties characteristic of each planetary influx, 
the heavens in any nativity depends upon 
or  influence,   is  most   difficult   to   obtain. 
33 
This difficulty arises from the fact that, in 
sive  astrological   house   of  the   complete 
its primary nature,  each  planet produces 
figure,—for instance, through the children 
certain effects upon  metals, other effects 
that are born during the time it is in that 
upon  plants,  other  effects  upon  animals, 
house, because it is known that in the dif- 
and still other effects upon human beings, 
ferent  houses it  determines  or produces 
Besides the fact that the same planet will 
effects of different kinds.   In the case of 
influence different people in different ways 
the Sun in Leo, of course, all these effects 
at one and the same time, we also know 
will be solar.    Thus we may assume that 
that its effects vary in the forms through 
what is found to be common in all the 
which   they   are   manifested.     Even   the 
effects must be ascribed to the particular 
same planetary  influence will  affect one 
nature of the Sun.   In the same way, we 
certain person in various ways at different 
must  proceed  with  our consideration  of 
times.    That is, its action is not always 
each planet, 
constant. 
This process offers least difficulty in our 
Further than this, we know that in the 
study of  the  Sun  and  Moon,  for  these 
passage of a certain planet through a par- 
planets  possess   only  one  celestial   house 
ticular sign, it produces effects of one kind, 
each,  while  the  other planets  have  two 
while its transit through another sign pro- 
houses each, these houses themselves being 
duces effects of a widely different nature, 
different  in  nature.     [This  was  written 
We know also that it acts differently when 
before the discovery of Uranus, Neptune 
in   contact   with   or   aspected   by   other 
and Pluto.]    Although the difficulty here 
planets.    Its action is still further modi- 
is somewhat greater, it is capable of solu- 
fied according to its position in one "astro- 
tion when we recall that the zodiacal signs 
logical house or another.   Its effects differ, 
operate in definite ways even when they 
too, when it is ruler of one astrological 
are empty, that is, when they are not occu- 
house   as   compared   to   its   rulership   of 
pied by any planet.    These definite char- 
another. 
acteristics have been attributed to the signs 
The    possible    combinations    of    these through the ages, the nature of the charac 
effects   are   innumerable,   which   accounts 
teristics depending upon the nature of the 
for the great difficulty to be encountered 
sign-ruler. 
when we attempt to discover the simple         The   "essential   determinations"   of  the 
nature and the essential properties which 
planets and signs, discovery of which is the 
each planet possesses.    It is only by con- 
object of our inquiry, find their expres- 
centrated study  and  careful  comparisons 
sion in the fundamental properties of their 
that we can hope to gain a positive knowl- 
influx, which properties are described  in 
edge. 
the  usual   texts   and   therefore   are   well 
During the passage of a planet through 
known to astrologers. However, study of 
its own house—for instance, the Sun 
these essential determinations leads us into 
through Leo—especially when it is not 
discussion and consideration of the univer- 
united bodily or by aspect with another 
sal significators, which have been men- 
planet, the nature of this planet manifests 
tioned above. 
itself pure and free from the admixtures        It is accepted by all astrologers that the 
of other influences, that is, in simple form. 
Sun should signify in itself the father, the 
Through this agreement of sign and planet, 
husband, the chiefs, the nobles, the glory, 
these specific simple effects are found to 
the honors, the life, etc, while the Moon 
be seemingly doubled in power. 
signifies the mother, the wife, the queens, 
We then must observe the phenomena 
the people; Jupiter signifies the riches, and 
that the planet produces in each succes- 
Mercury the intellectual faculties. 
34 
Astrological texts call the planets Uni- 
one time as its possible significations by 
versal Significators of the things just men- 
analogy, thaw is, we cannot consider it to 
tioned, and they make this essential signi- 
be at one time the significator of the father 
ficance the main factor in their predictions, 
and the .husband and the life and the hon- 
even going so far as to observe these essen- 
ors, etc. If we did so, we certainly would be 
tial significations in the "directions" of the 
compelled to prognosticate the same qual- 
planets. 
ity for all these categories at one time, 
Thus Ptolemy said in the Third Book of             which would be absolutely absurd. 
his Quadripartite,  chapter  5:  "The Sun 
Cardan makes this admission: "Ptolemy 
and Saturn agree to the father by nature; 
has brought some new confusion by attri- 
the Moon and Venus to the mother: the 
buting several significations to a single sig- 
condition of these planets and their rela- 
nificator; thus  he  has declared  that the 
tion to the other planets signifies what is to 
Moon signifies the body, then the moral 
come to the parents."                                    
faculties, then the life and the wife and 
Later, in chapter 18 of the Third Book, 
the mother and the servants, the daughters 
be says:    'The quality of the intelligence 
and the sisters.   How then must the Moon 
and of reasoning must be deduced from 
be disposed of in the horoscope of a man 
the condition of Mercury, while that of 
who himself will-be of long life, but whose 
the instinctive and moral faculties is de- 
wife dies during childbirth, who will see 
duced from the Moon and the planets in 
some of his daughters die while the others 
configuration therewith." 
are spared, whose servants are not reliable. 
According to this doctrine, all astrolo- 
and whose mother dies early, while he him- 
gers draw their judgments about the father 
self is enjoying good health,  but whose 
from die Sun  of the native and  from 
mind   is   inconstant   and   full   of   bad 
Saturn; about the mother from the Moon;           instincts?" 
about the intellect from Mercury; about 
Let us go somewhat further.   If Ptolemy 
the moral organization from the Moon; all 
and his partisans were right in claiming 
these  being   independent   of   the   houses 
that in every daytime birth, die judgment 
which these planets occupy in the chart, or 
about the father should be drawn from the 
in which they  dominate,  whatever may 
"celestial state" of the Sun, while in every 
be the connections of each with the other 
night-time birth the judgment about the 
planets. 
father should be based upon the state of 
It can easily be seen, however, that this 
Saturn, then it would follow that, if- the 
doctrine is far from representing the truth, 
Sun were  posited  in Leo  and conjunct 
and that in this tradition the ancients have 
or trine Venus or  Jupiter,  nowhere  in 
abused the analogic virtue of the planets, 
the world would there be born during that 
In fact, although they possess essentially 
daytime a child whose father, because of 
an analogy with different categories and 
this disposition of the Sun, would not be 
beings or sublunary things, such as the Sun 
happy and enjoy life a long time.    Nor, 
with life, with father, with honors, never- 
when the Sun was in a malefic state, could 
theless the Sun by itself does not signify 
there be born a child whose father would 
either the father, or the husband, or honors, 
not be unhappy and die at an early age. 
etc 
We must remember besides that this favor' 
Interpreting   the   significations   of   the 
able disposition or unfavorable disposition 
Sun in a nativity, we must not give a priori 
of the Sun could last a long time, which 
the preference to any of these analogies, 
 would prove so much more the absurdity 
to the detriment of others.    On the other 
of this theory of these "universal signifi- 
hand, we must not attribute to the Sun at      cators." 
It is true that, although the different 
planets act upon and for that reason sig-
nify certain things, their influence is quail- 
fied or modified because of a particular 
affinity therefor, which in turn is due to a 
natural analogy between the planet and 
the thing or object toward which its influx 
is directed. But this determination, pre-
cisely because it is essential, is so universal 
in itself that it does not apply more to a 
man than it does to an animal, while 
among several men who were born at the 
same time, it does not apply more to one 
than to another. 
HENCE, there is no planet 
which, by itself, can signify the life or 
death, the father or mother, friends or 
enemies, unless it is found in a birth chart 
to be specially determined to these signifi'-
cations, be it through its position in the 
heavens, through its domination of such 
astrological houses, or through an aspect 
with the ruler of such houses, as will be 
shown. 
But should it happen that this special or 
accidental determination coincides with the 
essential determination of the planet (for 
example, when, concerning the father, the 
Sun in a day-time nativity or Saturn in a 
nocturnal nativity would be bodily or by 
domination in the fourth house; concerning 
honors, when the Sun is situated in or dom- 
inates the tenth house; in regard to the 
intellectual faculties, when Mercury is 
placed in or dominates the first house, etc), 
then such a concourse or agreement would 
reinforce the efficacy of the planetary stim-
ulus in the sense of the particular deter-
mination, while the quality of this action 
would derive from the favorable or unfav-
orable state of the planet considered. It is 
this possible coincidence of two determin-
ations (a coincidence which occurs rather 
frequently in actual practice) which has 
been the source of error on the part of 
ancient astrologers, who believed the deter- 
35 
 minations by analogy were invariably true,  
whereas they are merely occasionally or  
accidentally so. 
 However, someone may object that  
admitting the existence and the employ- 
ment of universal significators for each  
category of things, it would not follow that  
the exterior effects which could thus be  
brought into the picture would be neces- 
sarily uniform and general, and, on the  
other hand, that these effects could present  
an extraordinary variety because, with  
Ptolemy and his partisans, for instance,  
attributing to the lunar influx an action 
that is peculiar to the moral faculties, this 
influx could be considered as indifferent in  
itself in respect to their quality. This, of  
course, would not be defined a, priori, but  
in reality would come through the zodiacal  
sign occupied by the Moon, as well as by  
the sign's ruler, and is therefore subject to  
the great diversity of the signs and their  
rulers, from which condition a great var-  
iety of moral temperaments would result. 
 This argument fails immediately when  
we take as an example the Moon's transit  
through Cancer, because the activity of  
this sign, being of the same nature as the  
Moon, is therefore not subject to the dom-  
ination of any other planet but solely to  
the domination of the Moon. 
 Careful study of this example leads us to  
affirm that the Moon influences differently,  
and consequently possesses different signi- 
fications, according to the zodiacal sign  
through which it is passing, and depending  
upon the ruler whom it is thus underlying.  
But when we consider the full period  
required for the Moon's transit of one  
sign, even this influence and this significa-  
tion are still too general. For, if these  
were the only factors involved, then all the  
individuals born while the Moon is transit- 
ing a given sign (and thus while the state  
of the sign's ruler remained the same),  
would have to be characterized by the same  
faculties and moral tendencies, and even  
more especially in the case of those whose 
36 
births occurred dose together,  that is, at 
the same moment but at a different place. 
I repeat, therefore, that the Moon, con-
sidered from the viewpoint of her celestial  
state alone, cannot signify the character 
of the mother or of the wife, at one time.   
If it must signify one of these categories 
in preference to another, it  needs a 
special determination. It is most essential 
that it be the ruler of the horoscope, or 
that it shall possess a relation with the 
rulers of the houses whose significations 
include the things in question. 
Thus in theory as -well as practice, the 
ruler of the horoscope joined with the Sun 
(which signifies honors, by analogy), espe-
cially under a favorable aspect, promises 
honors to the native-, conjoined with Jupi-
ter {which by analogy signifies riches), it 
indicates fortune; conjoined with Venus 
{whose signification extends over every-
thing that is feminine), it can among other 
things signify the spouse, and this is even 
wore certain when Venus is found bodily 
in the seventh  house or is the mistress 
thereof. 
When the Moon, which by affinity and 
in a general way, is significator of the 
moral tendencies, is found in a chart to 
be a special significator—by its occupancy 
of the first house (whose essential signif- 
cation includes the moral organization), or 
by its domination of that house—then the 
lunar influence will manifest an extremely 
powerful action over these special faculties. 
This will be the case also when the Moon 
is found to be ruler of the horoscope or in 
aspect with the ruler. It is evident, if it 
simultaneously receives several particular 
determinations in that direction, that its 
influence over the moral organization will 
be just so much more effective according to 
the number and strength of these added 
determinations. The reverse is true, of 
course, if the Moon is weak by aspect and 
house in the chart of which it is the ruler. 
We must therefore consider with great 
care the planets that occupy a house, or 
the planet ruling that house, to see if they 
are in favorable or "unfavorable configura- 
tion with the planet whose significations 
are the same as the significations of that 
house, and from this proceed to considera- 
tion of the celestial state of this latter 
planet and its particular determination in 
the chart. 
This is the secret of certain predictions 
which sometimes are astonishing as they 
are confirmed by events. 
GEORGE   BAYER 
Offers a Weekly Close-Range Analysis of 
Stocks That Are Moving, Wheat, Cotton 
and Other Commodities, in detail, for 
Traders and Investors. $9 per month; 
3 months, $25/ 
FORECASTS for 
Stocks, Wheat or Cotton 
for the entire year of 1937 
(until Dec 31)  now available; write 
for pamphlet 
"Time Factors in the Stock Market,'* a 
book giving yon the "lowdown" on 
Stock Trading Secrets, $20.00 per copy 
(manuscript). 
GEORGE BAYER 
3216 Crescent Su    Long Island City, N. Y. 
37 
GEORGE BAYER 
Offers a Weekly Close-Range Analysis of 
Stocks That Are Moving, Wheat, Cotton 
and Other Commodities, in detail, for 
Traders rind Investors. $9 per month; 
3 months, $25. t 
Forecast of 
Stock Movements 
for the 'entire year of 1937 now 
available 
"Time Factors in the Stock Market," 
a book giving you the "lowdown" on 
Stock Trading Secrets, $20.00 per copy 
(manuscript). 
GEORGE BAYER 3216 
Crescent St.    Long Island, City, N. Y. 
38 
39 
Biblical Astrology 
Another in a series of illuminating articles 
on the Astrology of The Bible—Abraham's 
"Tent." 
By GEORGE BAYER 
(In presenting this series of articles on Biblical 
Astrology, by Mr. Bayer, we feel that we arc rendering a 
distinct service to every astrologer and .student who 
will take the trouble to experiment along the lines 
suggested by the author. Mr. Bayer has found, by 
conscientious testing over a long period of years, that 
his biblical measurements work out almost unfailingly 
in the movements of stocks and commodities, as well as 
in the calculation of other types of astrological  
forecasts.) 
WHILE it is to be .expected 
that the well-seasoned astrologer will probably 
derive the greatest measure of information 
from this and future articles in this 
series, I believe the subject matter with 
which we shall deal herein is of interest 
to a preponderant majority of our readers. 
My hope is that none of you will get 
the idea that there is anything irreverent in 
my statements regarding the astrological 
meanings contained in the scriptural 
writings 
with 
which 
everyone 
is 
familiar. In these articles, I have tried to 
concentrate my entire attention upon the 
utilitarian value of The Bible as a guide 
in our daily lives and affairs. In adopting 
this attitude, I am not detracting in any 
way from the Book's value as a spiritual 
guide, but rather am thereby proving that 
it well merits the full confidence and faith 
of those who study it as a religious work. 
The astrologer who realizes that The 
Bible is the one Book which contains all 
the Laws we are seeking, I hope, will find 
in these articles the answers to many of 
his questions. 
The basis of this article is Genesis, 
chapter 18, verses 1.10. Due to space 
limitations, I cannot elaborate on many 
points introduced in this discussion, and 
ask the reader to accept my statements as 
having been tested and demonstrated time 
and again. Later, as you go further with 
me, you will be able to make these same 
tests for yourself and with your own 
materials. Certain points here mentioned, 
however, were dealt with at length in my 
article  in  the  February issue 
to which I refer you. 
The gist of our story from Genesis is: 
Abraham was sitting at the door of his 
tent at noon) of a certain day, when the 
Lord appeared. He looked up and saw 
three men standing against him. He ran 
toward them and bowed to the earth. He 
suggested that he would wash their feet, 
and that they lean against the tree. He 
also offers to bring bread and then they 
may go. He says, "That is why you came 
(all three) to our servant." 
Abraham ran into the tent to Sarah and 
told her to mix three measures of bread 
flour and make some cake. Then he ran 
to the cattle, selected a calf and gave it to 
the boy to prepare it. 
He brought butter and milk and of the 
veal and gave it to the three men by step- 
ping under the tree, and they ate. They 
ask him, "Where is Sarah, your wife?" 
He replied, "In the tent." 
The Lord said, "I shall come again, pro-
vided I live yet, then Sarah shall have a 
son." And Sarah heard this, "behind the 
door." 
What is the astrological meaning of this 
chapter? 
Abraham represents the Sun. He was 
sitting in front of his tent (house) and it 
was noon. We know that the Sun's house 
is Leo, or at least part of Leo, as we shall 
40 
 
G e n e s i s  2 - 9  tells 
us the TREE    is at 15° 
AQUARIUS 
ABRAHAM'S TENT 
see presently. Abraham, or the Sun, was 
therefore at 0 degrees Leo. The event 
must have occurred July 23-24 of our 
calendar, in a certain year. The position 
of the signs must have been so that the 
Midheaven of a horoscope erected for the 
time would be about 29:59 Cancer to 0 
Leo. 
He looked up and saw three men against 
him. "Against him" means opposite his 
own position. The three men were thus 
standing at 0 Aquarius, opposite his door. 
See Figure I. The men were Mars, Jupi-
ter and Saturn. The event, as we realize, 
must have been very important, because it 
takes many centuries to find Jupiter con- 
junct Saturn at 0 Aquarius, plus many 
more multiples of centuries to find that 
event happening while Mars is conjunct 
with them and the Sun opposite them all. 
We must realize that in the early stories 
of the Bible we have to do with very long 
cycles of great import, and a few hundred 
successive births and deaths of the Ephe 
meron called man have no count in these 
cycles. 
In the Bible, "under earth" is always 
understood to refer to that section of the 
zodiac which includes the signs Sagittarius, 
Capricorn and Aquarius. (See Genesis 2, 
verse 4, et seq.) Thus, the meaning of "He 
bowed to the earth" is: Being at 0 Leo, 
he could bow downward and reach 0 
Aquarius, below the earth. In Figure 2, 
I put Mr. Sun into the zodiac. His head is 
at 0 Leo, his left heel at 15 Aquarius, his 
right heel at 15 Capricorn, his left hand 
at 15 Taurus, his right hand at 15 Libra. 
His shoulders are just 15 degrees on either 
side of his head. 
The suggestion to wash their feet indi-
cates that the sectors 0 Cancer to 15 Can- 
cer, as well as 15 Leo to 0 Virgo must 
contain water, else the feet could not be 
washed. We know from book astrology 
that Cancer is a watery sign, but it is prob-
ably new to most students that 15 Leo to 
0 Virgo also is full of water. 
Now see Figure 3.    The head of the 
41 
Lord is at 0 Aquarius, the feet at 15 
Cancer and at 15 Leo. The men are told 
to lean against the tree. This tree, 
according to Genesis 2:9, is located at 
15 Aquarius. Now, when we look at 
the Lord and the two other men, we 
can readily sec that they did not have to 
go far, because they actually were already 
leaning against the tree with their right 
shoulders. 
The suggestion to bring bread is rather 
superfluous, because it is shown in the 
Bible that whenever we speak of bread we 
have to understand the sector from 0 to 30 
Aries and more particularly its center, 15 
Aries. Our Figure 3 shows, however, 
that the three men could readily help 
themselves, because they had their hands 
right in the bread, while Abraham's hand 
was 15 Libra and could not give them 
bread at all. He himself establishes the 
fact that, the Sun, is the servant of Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn. This is a very im- 
portant statement and possibly somewhat 
startling to some students of astrology. 
Now we find that Abraham ran into 
the tent, to Sarah. Until now he has been 
at the tent door, i.e., at 0 Leo. He tells 
her to mix three measures of bread flour. 
This sentence actually has nothing to do 
with baking or with cake; it is used to es-
tablish the whereabouts of Mrs. Abraham, 
who is Venus. In chapter 5, verse 3, of 
Genesis, we are told (by figuring it put 
mathematically) that one measure equals 
1 degree 36 minutes 55:3846 seconds. 
This is the standard unit used in the 
Bible. It may mean years, days, cake 
measures, depending upon the situation. 
Thus, Sarah was at that moment 3 times 
1° 36' 55:3846" away from the door, 
Multiplying, we find Sarah's position to be 
4° 50' 46:1538" in the sign Leo. (see 
Figure 4). Now, Genesis 1:24 tells us that 
cattle means Leo, and Genesis 13:2 speci-
fies more clearly where the cattle are to be 
found within the sign of Leo. It says: 
0 Leo to 20 Leo. Thus we know that the 
Sun passed the conjunction with Venus, 
his wife, then continued moving forward 
into Leo to pick up the calf which he gave 
to the boy, to prepare it. The giving 
process means conjunction. The boy was 
Mercury, of course. The Sun himself 
brought butter and milk and of the veal 
as he stepped under the tree. The tree is 
at 15 Aquarius, and the shade of the tree 
therefore is at 15 Leo. Thus, the comple-
tion of this event required about two 
weeks, or while the Sun was transiting 
from 0 Leo to 15 Leo. 
Next, the three men asked, "Where is 
Sarah, your wife?" Abraham replied, "In 
the tent." This means, astrologically, that 
the Sun, being at 15 Leo, was now outside 
the tent, while Venus was still inside. 
Since the Sun had conjoined, then passed, 
Venus, he must have been moving at 
greater speed than Venus. Too, this must 
indicate that Venus was moving at less 
than her normal rate of travel, because the 
Sun overtook her within the tent and left 
her behind him. The conjunction, then, 
must have occurred when Venus was about 
to turn retrograde, because according to 
the Lord's statement, she is to bear a son 
within a year. Note that the "begetting" 
period for Venus therefore is definitely the 
time of her retrogradation. 
As to the butter and milk, we get hints 
here as to when we must expect high and 
low prices in milk and butter, depending 
upon the position of the Sun as related to 
Mars, as well as to the tree. 
The Lord says that he will come again, 
provided he is still alive, and Sarah shall 
have a son. This means that Mars must 
return to its present relative position, which 
indicates a period of about two years until 
the birth occurs. Sarah hears this from 
behind the door. Figure 6 illustrates the 
positions of Abraham, Sarah, the door be- 
tween them, and the Lord on the other side. 
The dotted line shows the path Mars 
must travel through the zodiac to come 
back to its position at 15 Aquarius. 
The domain of the Sun is shown, in 
Figure 7, to extend from one door to the 
42 
other, i.e., from 0 Leo to 15 Leo, and no 
further. Let all astrologers give this state-
ment particular study. Perhaps it will 
clarify some of the present difficulties in 
interpreting Leo. 
Figure 5 shows where the meal was con-
sumed, with the relative positions of Abra-
ham and the three men. The positions of 
the boy and Sarah are, at this moment, 
irrelevant. 
This article is a brief explanation of only 
ten verses of the Bible. Just look at the 
1284 pages the standard Bible contains and 
consider that each word has its meaning, 
that great events always occur at the ex-
piration of 1284 days in the markets, that 
the making of just so many pages to make 
up one Bible is not a coincidence. 
Consider also that to study the Bible, 
one must begin at Genesis 1:1 and analyze 
each word carefully, else one will soon 
reach a stage where he can proceed no 
further. It may be said parenthetically 
that I have begun not less than eight times, 
and always got "stuck" shortly beyond 
Exodus, until one day I was able to cross 
the bridge into still deeper things. How-
ever, when once the fundamentals have 
been mastered, the scroll seems to unroll 
as a thread from off a spool. It is my 
opinion that the Bible astrologers read the 
Book in the same way that we page through 
an encyclopedia, for explanation of certain 
words. In their case they searched for 
specific situations and factors. Certainly 
it must have been impossible for them to 
retain in their memories all the intricate 
laws which this Book contains. 
While the ideas presented here may ap-
pear far-fetched at first glance, I have 
tested them over the years in many ways, 
and the measurements and suggestions they 
afford have proved accurate. It is, of 
course, impossible to present the whole 
Biblical system of astrology in articles as 
brief as these must be, but those who desire 
to study this system more thoroughly may 
find   it  helpful   to  write  me 
43 
Previewing the 
May Stock Market 
Your Good and Bad Fortunes as Indicated 
By Your Birth Mercury and Jupiter 
By GEORGE BAYER 
Famous Market Forecaster 
(Note —The statements and forecasts con- 
usually are subjects of Mercury.  So far as 
tained  in  the following article are  the opinions 
luck is concerned they can achieve very 
of Mr. Bayer. Readers are advised that they            little, for  "luck" is the gift of Jupiter.  As 
act upon these forecasts at their own risk.) 
a rule Jupiter people buy and sell stocks 
THE    parentally determined rich    
and commodities-at the direction, or under 
—that is, those persons who have Jupiter      the impulsion, of Jupiter. Of course, they    
in favorable positions or aspects at the 
believe it is their own intellect and activity   
moment or birth—as a rule are inclined to 
which brings in the profit.  But, although 
pity those who were saddled with a 
 
we naturally do find among this group a   
strong twelfth  house  at  birth. 
large percentage of highly intelligent natives, we are 
That   is, astrologically speaking those 
likely to find an equally large percentage of people   
who were born with a gold spoon in their    scarcely able to write their own names. It   
mouth  and  the inherent  ability  to  mag- 
often happens that these latter people sign their 
  
netize money, generally “sort of pity” their      “papers” with a cross, meaning X or our sign  
fellows whose lot it is to earn their bread 
of Pisces. (In another article I will show  
and gelt by the sweat of their brows. For 
that X in the Roman system of numerals 
they see the latter group actually working      equals Pisces.) 
    
with their own hands, and with their own 
     It seems to me that Mercury people-- especially 
brains, to eke out a mere existence, while those with a strong twelfth house 
 
   
they who were born under the money-mag-  and  an  inclination  toward  astrology—are   
netic  influences of  a  favoring Zeus  have 
about  to  "get their innings." To have a 
the good things of life—the equivalents of 
strong twelfth house does not mean that 
golden   coins   upon   platters   of   silver— 
you must have been born within the first   
handed to them with scarcely an effort. 
two hours after dawn, in order that your 
Of  course,  their  attitude   really is  not 
natal Sun may be in that house. No. The   
one of pity,  but rather  of  helpless  com- 
Sun may be  anywhere in the zodiac, so 
miseration. I  never yet have  met one of      long as the twelfth house is tenanted by 
these Jupiter-favored individuals who did     "good" planets  or such planets are cast-   
not, at least secretly, wish that all his fel- 
ing favorable  aspects thereto.  Even  good   
low beings were as carefree and as well 
aspects from the "malefic" Saturn to the 
provided for as himself. But a prime ex- 
twelfth   house   are  highly  desirable.    The 
ternal    characteristic    of    these    Jupiter 
only   apparent   disadvantage  in   a   Saturn 
favored ones is their inability to pass their 
aspect to the twelfth—and it is a disad- 
favored ones is their inability to pass their 
vantage more apparent than real—is that 
good fortune—their "Secret of Success"— 
 
on to anyone else. 
 
People born with a strong twelfth house 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44 
you will be more inclined to side with the 
group than the Jupiterians.  They cannot 
bears because it will be difficult for you to        become misers;  they can never fear that 
see anything moving upward. 
someone will steal their knowledge, because 
Mercury—in Biblical Astrology Mercury 
Jupiter—the genial "taker"—is seldom in- 
is the "wife" of Mars—is now entering a        terested in that "stuff." 
new cycle with Neptune, and this should 
Of course, when we look at things in a 
make "her" the most powerful planet in 
broad way, we must admit that the Mer- 
the  heavens  for a  long period  to come. 
cury people, being human, are interested 
Mercury is to direct our destinies during 
in accumulating money, at least enough to 
this cycle. If you doubt this statement, con- 
afford them a comfortable living, or to fi- 
sider the mercurial matters which are al-         nance additional studies 
ready  gaining  prominence,  including  the             On the surface, the Mercury people ap-         
remarkable circulation gains of magazines        pear to satisfied with this “division of 
 
and books dealing with astrology and kin-        the spoils.” But now a new Mercury 
 
dred arts and sciences.                                             Cycle is starting and Mercury will have his  
The    “Jupiter   Rich”, especially   when         say. That is, according to the Bible, the 
 
Saturn  is  unfavorable,  derive  little  good        children of Eve, Rebecca and Sarah are 
 
from the moneys they attract. They often        getting ready to “make it hot” for the 
 
turn misers; they hoard their gold, become         Pharaohs and the Pharisees,  the 
 
hermits, and develop a fear of their fellow         Pharaohs and Pharisees being the  
 
human   beings.   This   fear   prevents   them         Jupiterians. 
 
from spending their money even for needed            The Point I have had in mind in these  
things.                                                                    remarks is perhaps made clearer when   
                                                                                      we consider the movements of 
Persons born with an afflicted Mercury,         commodities—  coffee, silk, cotton, 
 
or twelfth house, also have very little to        which are traded on the exchanges in 
show for their lives. They do not read good          the same way as stocks. These 
 
books, or seek to extend their mental hori-          movements can now be calculated by   
zons.  To overcome  monotony,  they take          the one who has a "good" 
  
the   mentally   easiest   way   of   traveling           Mercury in his chart, this "gift" being   
whenever possible. Sonic of them may even           no longer reserved for the children of 
 
give as their home addresses the names of         Jupiter, a well favored Mercury 
 
three or four cities which are as far apart         enables its possessor to reach correct 
 
in character as are cotton and wheat. I do         conclusions almost  automatically.  
 
not   believe   it   is   Uranus   but   Mercury 
 
which makes them move so erratically. 
 
So much for those with an afflicted Mer- 
 
cury or twelfth house. 
 
 
NOW let us look at the other 
 
side of the  picture.  People born with a 
 
strong twelfth house arc "fond of studying, 
  
especially subjects like astrology. They are 
 
not all clever or shrewd, but the majority 
Jupiter  will  not  respond  gracefully  to 
obtain   from   their   studies   a   knowledge 
the new activities of Mercury, particularly 
which circumvents stodginess and boredom, 
because Jupiter never has had much  use 
Most of them are in- what is called "mod' 
for Mercury. If you know the ancient rules 
crate" circumstances, although some are as 
for determining  weather  conditions,  you 
poor as a church mouse. Nevertheless, you 
will recall that the worst weather can be 
will find that they are generally a happier 
expected when we come to an apertio por- 
tarum, or opening of the portals. An aper- 
tio- portarum occurs when- two planets 
antagonistic to. each other come in contact. 
In the case we are discussing, these planets 
are Jupiter and Mercury. The "opening 
of the portals" brings great changes in 
"weather" conditions. 
We have seen' chat. Jupiter natives have 
slight use for Mercury natives. The latter 
are insignificant in the. sight of the ponder- 
ous one—big Jupiter against little Mer-
cury. But the Bible, tells us what is about 
to happen, because cycles repeat them- 
selves: 
OUR friend David of the Bible 
is the little Mercury of astrology. David 
walked over the field — Sagittarius-Capri-
corn—and met the mighty Goliath (Jupi-
ter) somewhere in Capricorn, or maybe 
in the first degrees of Aquarius. Remember 
that Goliath right now is. in Capricorn. You 
should read up on that story, so that I 
may save a little space for other things. 
The Bible story will tell you what is about 
to happen, if you will take the trouble to 
read it. 
Last February I did a little research 
work out in Nevada, and' you may like to 
hear what I found. I knew of an important 
bit of research that was being made by the 
United States Department of Agriculture 
in the matter of tree: growth. The scien-
tists attempted to discover future weather 
cycles by checking what had happened in 
the growth of trees in the Sierras during 
the past six hundred years. 
Droughts and wet years, they believed 
at first, could be dated by examining the 
annual growth-rings in the great trees of 
that region. After measuring (by boring) 
some five thousand trees; these scientists 
made microscopic measurements a n d  
plotted their findings in the form of a chart. 
Details about this work were printed in the 
Reno Gazette of February 17 and February 
28, 1937. The paper also printed the chart, 
showing the consecutive wet and 
45 
dry years in the Sierras for over four 
hundred years. 
The final conclusion of the scientists was 
that future weather cannot be foretold 
from the past weather cycles as indicated 
by the rings in those mighty trees. This 
conclusion completed their investigation. 
What it cost the Government, I do not 
know. 
Of course, being interested in forecasts, 
I checked the chart which the scientists 
had made—and I discovered that it is al- 
most an exact copy—about 90 percent cor'-
rect—of the Dow Jones Averages for a 
period which has but recently closed. 
What does this striking coincidence 
mean? For one thing, it means that one 
who knows astrology, thanks- to the scien-
tists who found nothing they could use 
for themselves,, should now be able to pre-
dict, the general weather conditions in this 
country from one day to the next. A few 
other helps are necessary,, such as market 
knowledge, records of sales, and astrologi'-
cal laws. Forecasts based on this data would 
be invaluable for those who grow crops, 
for aviation, and for many others. But, 
inasmuch as we are not here- concerned-
with the weather, I merely suggest that 
you remember it can be done. 
We are interested in the price move- 
ments of commodities and stocks and espe-
cially in the influences exerted by the plan-
ets upon the human mind, to make it want 
to buy or sell at a given time. These influ- 
ences during May are comparatively easy 
to analyze. 
Stocks 
STOCKS should be in a steady 
decline during May, which means that the 
market is in a state that is anything but 
bullish.. It is the "sting" of the Scorpion 
(see April 
) that is 
being: formed-, and the three tenses of the 
word "sting" (when it is used as a verb) 
are: 
46 
sting    stung    stung 
(Note that "stung" appears twice) Kindly 
note that everything in the way of a 
prediction given here is my opinion, and 
that you are to decide for yourself 
whether it is or is not of authentic value. 
If you trade in stocks or commodities, the 
risk you assume is yours and not mine. 
Your judgment may be that my opinion is 
wrong; in that case, follow your own judg- 
ment. 
Wheat 
WHEAT also seems due for a 
fainting spell during the month of May, 
with a small rally slated for May 9 to 19, 
which may better be ignored by the small 
trader. 
Cotton 
 
COTTON seems to have reached 
a stage of assimilation, in which the 
advance that was predicted long ago--and 
made—is to be adjusted. Therefore, cotton 
may be sold in early May and left alone 
during the remainder of the month. 
Lard, Cottonseed Oil and Butter 
THESE three commodities should 
make an important bottom May 20 and 
another on May 29. After these dates, an- 
other upward movement should begin. I 
would  not have any  contracts until then.
47 
 
48 
Previewing the June Stock Market 
With Pointed Remarks on Buying Stocks and 
Commodities With an Eye to Their Salability 
By GEORGE BAYER 
Famous Market Forecaster 
(Note—The statements and  forecasts 
contained in the following article are the 
opinions of Mr. Bayer. Readers are ad-
vised that they act upon these forecasts, 
at their own risk.) 
PANETARY vibrations, as 
every student of astrology is fully aware, 
directly govern every entity, of every 
kind, to be found upon the earth. These 
vibrations, uniting their effects upon any 
particular "center" or entity, cause it to 
do certain things, or to perform in a certain 
way, 
under 
that 
particular 
set 
of 
conditions which prevails at any certain 
time. These same vibrations, concenter-
ing upon a specific entity under other 
conditions and at another time, will cause 
that entity to behave or react differently. 
The fact that an entity's probable reac-
tions at a given time, to a given grouping 
of planetary vibrations as related to itself, 
may be predetermined through a knowl-
edge of the art and science of astrology, 
constitutes what an ever increasing num-
ber of people regard as the most sig-
nificant consideration in their lives. 
When one man's stock and commodity 
cycle begins, for instance, even though he 
be unaware of the beginning, his way will 
lead him inevitably into a brokerage 
office, and he will embark upon a career 
of trading in stocks. This cycle will end 
eventually—at least, in many instances— 
whereupon he will begin to trade in com-
modities. 
When he comes to the beginning of a 
cycle which causes him to turn "within" 
for guidance, his way will inevitably lead 
him to a newsstand which displays the 
current  issue  of 
Magazine, and his eyes will choose that 
magazine out of the maze of magazine 
titles spread out before him. To go far-
ther, I know a man who lives away over 
on the border of Zululand, where the 
Kaffirs live in the veldt, whose vibrations 
called for 
Maga- 
zine—and he manages to obtain it regu-
larly and on time. 
You may be surprised to know that this 
man uses the market delineations given 
in this magazine, despite his isolation from 
the civilized world, and that he deals in 
cotton and wheat futures on the London 
market. He bought by cable to London 
on January 26 and sold exactly on the 
temporary peak of mid-March. Even 
local speculators could not have done bet-
ter than he, for his planetary vibrations 
were in full strength, and distance there-
fore could not serve as a barrier. 
It makes little difference whether you 
are "sitting on the tape" in the board 
room from 10 to 3 o'clock each day, or 
whether you live among the Zulus in 
Darkest Africa, for when your own group-
ing of planetary vibrations is appropriate 
you can successfully trade in stocks or 
commodities from any place on the globe. 
THE JUNE MARKET 
Having now unloaded several things 
which I consider instructive, let us get on 
with what the planetary vibrations indi-
cate for the month of June: 
STOCKS—The "sting" of Scorpio should 
have developed during the month of May, 
and this "sting" has not ended as we enter 
the month of June, but should continue 
until June 11 or 12. At that time we can 
expect an upward turn which should rep-
resent the "hook" of the sign Scorpio— 
see March issue of 
Magazine. The formation of that hook 
.should run into the month of July. 
Therefore, according to astrological 
rules    (and   my   own   humble   opinion), 
stocks may be repurchased between June 
10 and 13 for a good-sized rally. This 
does not mean that you should do what I 
suggest except on your own responsibility. 
You can do anything and everything that 
your fancy dictates. I may be wrong with 
my interpretations and you may be right. 
Therefore, please take everything stated 
here with a big grain of salt. You know 
that certain predictions do not come true 
because of our lack of knowledge. For 
example, the big decline which I had 
slated when "Rebecca died" a few days 
prior to this writing (April 2, 1937) 
caused only a 3 1/2c decline in Chicago 
wheat and hardly any decline in Winnipeg 
quotations. The dates of change I had found 
correctly, both the beginning and' the 
end, but the distance to be passed 
through was not at all comparative. 
Therefore, to the average trader, the 
analysis seemed to be erroneous, even 
though a small profit did result when 
action was taken at the given dates. 
WHEAT—The slow decline in wheat 
during May should continue until about 
June 9-12. It appears that around these 
days the low prices will be seen and buy-
ing may be resumed. This movement, 
though slow in the beginning, should im-
prove after we leave the month of June. 
It may be said that wheat in late options 
should be accumulated by mid-June and 
held for a substantial rise later on. 
COTTON—The indications for cotton 
are for rather wide fluctuations during 
June, downward during the early part 
and reversing thereafter. The main 
trend, however, appears to be upward, 
and later in the year much higher prices 
should be witnessed. 
COTTONSEED OIL AND LARD—The 
main trend should have changed toward 
the end of May from downward to up-
ward. We may expect a secondary low 
between June 9 and 12, but it should have 
little bearing on the general, more bullish 
situation in these two commodities. I be-
lieve they should be bought and held for 
higher levels later on. 
All things combined, a change of senti-
ment should occur for the better before 
mid-June, 1937, and it should continue 
into the month of July. 
49 
50 
Previewing the July Stock Market 
By GEORGE BAYER 
THERE is a continuous argu-
ment among those who trade in stocks 
and commodities as to the respective 
merits of various methods of market 
movement forecasting. One group, which 
seems to be in the majority, relies prin-
cially upon statistics, corporation earnings, 
dividend actions, railroad car loadings, 
kilowatt-consumption, 
blast 
furnace 
activity, and other such factors. 
The so-called statistical agencies, or 
advisory counsellors, maintain large staffs 
of mathematical experts who delve into 
and correlate these statistics, the results 
being then submitted to their clients, as a 
guide to investment. The fallacy of plac-
ing one's faith upon this method of fore-
casting was shown during the past quar-
ter, when the statisticians proclaimed that 
all was well with the market, that nothing 
beclouded the horizon, that stock should 
bc held, and that purchases should be 
made on slight dips. 
One famous economist brought out a 
booklet just as the market started its nose-
dive in May, in which he stated that the 
market was not likely to go downward, 
but that the "good times" should continue 
straight through until 1939, in which year 
a decline might be expected. 
Reading this booklet, I was impelled for 
safety's sake to project my own forecasts 
forward into 1939, and I found that under 
astrological rules the economist was not 
exactly correct in his findinigs, because 
1939 to me gives promise of an upward 
movement. 
The other group mentioned above, 
which is in the minority, relies upon the 
interpretation of planetary influences. 
Provided the interpretation is correct, 
these major influences can be determined 
over a long period ahead. The great 
trouble with this type of trader is that 
they are in the minority, and probably 
will be for quite a while to come. 
Those who follow the market reports 
in the daily papers are fed the following 
phrases, which are changed occasionally 
to suit conditions: 
"Wheat declined today due to rain in 
Oklahoma." 
"Wheat rose strongly today, due to 
great export demand-" 
"Wheat declined today because the 
Government’s count of the acreage planted 
revealed a lot of extra wheat growing in 
Iowa that, somehow, was not counted be-
fore." 
Every day, something else happens 
that is used to account for the current 
market movement, whereas the reason 
lies elsewhere. Yet traders are so firmly 
convinced that the "causes" given in the 
daily papers represent realities that all 
other factors, no matter how relevant and 
important, are utterly ignored. 
A few forecasters, after thorough study 
of "economics," have discovered that while 
this study has great virtue as the basis 
for final conclusions in some fields, yet 
when used alone it is comparable to an 
automobile without gasoline. There is, in 
other words, something vital that is miss-
ing. 
It was specially enlightening, during the 
sharp decline of May 12-13, that the news 
tickers tapped out the statement: "There 
is no balm in Gilead." All the New York 
papers said: "We seemingly cannot ac-
count for this decline." There was no 
news to elaborate upon, yet not only did 
stocks decline, but cocoa also dropped 200 
points, rubber tumbled, hides dropped a 
hundred points, and so on. One New York 
paper suggested that the Coronation had 
something to do with it, but in almost the 
same sentence reversed itself with the 
alternative suggestion that "European 
liquidation," or something of the sort, was 
responsible. 
Concerning "European liquidation," I 
would Like to point out that about three 
New York Stock Exchange houses have 
branch offices in London; I believe Paris 
. has two; and there are probably five other 
branch offices of American brokerage 
firms elsewhere throughout Europe. They 
51 
should have done a tremendous business 
during this period, if the newspaper state-
ment was based on fact. 
But let me put this question—How 
many of you are trading in the English 
market, or in the Paris and Milan mar-
kets? Your answer probably is that we 
have enough American and Canadian 
securities to trade in, without going to 
Europe. This is identical with what the 
English trader would say if we should 
ask him if he is trading in American 
stocks. They all have mines in their col-
onies; at home, they have all manner of 
factory stocks. My belief is that few Euro-
peans trade in our securities, excepting 
perhaps in our bonds. Most likely, they 
believe just as firmly in "trading at home" 
as we do. 
But somebody, somehow, somewhere, 
had to take the blame for the decline that 
came in May. I wonder what will be 
named as the cause of the decline1' that, 
in my view, really will develop from 
astrological causes. 
THE JULY TRENDS 
STOCKS—As we enter the month of 
July, we should have come back nicely 
from the deep. Things should look some-
what better, so that everyone hopes the 
worst is over. For the time being, the 
worst actually is over. In fact, during the 
first ten days of July, things should be-
come much brighter. The market should 
continue to rise through the holidays, 
bringing about a typical midsummer rally. 
However, we must remember that my 
analyses, published during the Spring 
months, showed that the sign of Scorpio 
was going to develop according to astro-
logical laws, and to the surprise of many, 
it did just that. July 10 ends the "sign 
of Scorpio" movement. We had the three 
down-strokes, we had the "sting" of 
Scorpio, and we had the "hook" of the 
"sting." This hook ends July 10, accord-
ing to my astrological calculations. 
What is next? A new cycle begins, of 
course. We should now get the sign of 
Aquarius, which is symbolized by two 
wavy lines, one above the other. Usually, 
these waves are made rather long. We 
may make them rather long also, in fitting 
them to our market pattern. What should 
be  their  direction?    An  up-wave,  or  a 
down-wave? Inasmuch as we have gone 
up to complete the hook of Scorpio, we 
should now go down. Therefore, we as-
sume that the top should be made very 
close to July 10. The market then should 
bend downward during the remainder of 
the month, even into August. 
WHEAT—The movements of wheat ap-
pear to be considerably different from 
those of stocks during July. Wheat, and 
probably the other grains, should start an 
upward movement at the beginning of the 
month, continuing upward with only small 
reactions until the end of the period. It 
seems that wheat is not in a trading posi-
tion in July, but the movement should 
have a continuously bullish tone. 
COTTON—This commodity does not 
seem to follow wheat, but should "act" 
more like the stocks. My calculations in-
dicate an upward trend during the first 
eight days of July, followed by a sharp 
reversal downward which should con-
tinue until July 24. At that time, a low 
may be expected, from which a prolonged 
upward movement should result. 
COMMODITIES, which have been mak-
ing the inverted Aries sign—a sharp, 
steep move upward, followed by a sharp, 
steep move downward, such as was the 
case in copper, hides, cocoa, corn—should 
not be traded in for large movements, but 
for short movements only. After the big 
decline, an accumulation period must 
necessarily follow, a so-called "shelf," 
from which a new cycle starts, which may 
be either upward or even further down-
ward.  This applies to the month of July. 
Silk and Sugar No. 3, which had a sag-
ging tendency during the first three 
months of 1937, should turn about face 
early in July and begin a wholesome up-
ward movement. It is my opinion that 
they should be bought early -in the month 
and held for the "longer pull." In that 
case, one should buy into late-maturing 
options. 
All in all, July should bring plenty of 
excitement in the markets, while traders 
are vacationing, and it well may be said 
here that it should be worth while to 
many traders to watch much closer their 
commitments than is usually the case dur-
ing such periods. Planetary forces do not 
take vacations. 
52 
For Tolerance Among Astrologers 
Discussing the Merits of the Various Accepted 
Systems of Calculation 
By GEORGE BAYER 
PRESENT - DAY astrological 
practice employs several systems of calcu-
lation, each of which differs in some radi-
cal fashion from the others. Many argu-
ments as to the merits of these various 
systems arise between their respective 
exponents whenever a few astrologers get 
together. 
Yet it is certain that each system must 
yield good results, otherwise it would be 
speedily discarded. There is a possibility, 
of course, that one method will give bet-
ter results in the practice of a -certain 
astrologer than in the practice of another, 
because of the difference in their respec-
tive modes of thinking and analysis. Yet 
there is enough truth in each of the 
methods that I have examined to warrant 
the sincere respect of all practitioners. 
The subject of astrology includes so 
much—everything that exists, as a mat-
ter of fact—that we probably shall never 
be able to end our research work or reach 
the limits of necessary exploration. For 
this reason also, we should be tolerant of 
each and every method that yields even 
a modicum of accuracy. 
Because we of 
Magazine believe thus, our pages always 
have been and will continue to be open 
to writers and advocates of every accepted 
system of astrological practice, the only 
restrictions being the amount of our avail-
able space and the probable value to our 
readers of each article that comes to us 
for consideration. 
We had an argument the other day, at 
Headquarters, as 
to the relative merits of "progressions" 
and "transits" in determining probable 
future planetary influences. The Transi-
tarian insisted that he seldom used pro-
gressions because he could not obtain sat- 
isfactory results with them. The Pro-
gressionist replied that he did not use 
transits because progressions gave him 
the best results. Yet, as a matter of fact, 
both of these astrologers are always mak-
ing startling predictions which come to 
pass. 
The upshot of the argument was that 
the Transitarian remains a Transitarian, 
while the Progressionist continues in his 
chosen path. Incidentally, they continue 
to be the best of friends—which is fortu-
nate, because both of them belong to 
"our" family and meet almost daily at 
Headquarters. The one thing upon which 
they do agree is that results count. 
In Europe, painstaking researchers have 
developed new methods of determining 
the cusps of the houses in a chart, such as 
the Hamburg School, Grimm's method, 
Vehlow's method, and others. I have 
tried them all, yet none of them have 
weaned me away from the Tables of 
Houses in common use over here. How-
ever, the research work of our European 
friends is worthy of encouragement and 
should be given a tryout by all of us, be-
cause their discoveries may eventually 
help us to forecast those certain categories 
of events which at present seem to be 
almost unpredictable. 
We are now publishing the first transla-
tion of a valuable old French textbook; 
very shortly, we shall present a simplified 
course in basic astrology; and we are con-
stantly providing much material of imme-
diate benefit to every reader who will 
make use of it in daily life.   We want 
to  be 
your friend, adviser and constant com-
panion—and we hope you will tell all 
your friends about us. 
53 
Previewing the August Stock Market 
With Forecasts of the Trends in Commodities 
By GEORGE BAYER 
Managing Editor 
AT THE date of this writing-
June 12, 1937, the market outlook seems 
to be very blue. Conversations with 
various traders today reveal that they do 
not now believe we are at a bottom. They 
believe the market will continue to go 
down. Yesterday a New York City news-
paper discussed the probability that we 
shall have 10-cent cotton. 
My work shows that they are just 
as wrong in this attitude as they were 
when they talked about 150 -for Steel 
last March. 
But we are not here concerned, with 
what will happen during the remaining 
weeks of June, because when you read 
these lines we shall be far past that 
period and should be getting ready for 
what is to come in August. 
STOCKS show a sidewise movement 
during the first half of August, to be fol- 
5T0CK5 
lowed 
by 
what Wall 
Street calls 
"a 
fool's move" for a week. A "fool's 
movement" is one which appears to be 
the beginning of a strong advance. 
However, when everyone has covered 
shorts, and those who had nothing to 
cover were given a 
chance to buy stocks, they suddenly turn 
about face and downhill they go, much 
faster than they came up. In this way 
people get "caught long," a condition 
which is just as unfortunate as being 
"caught short." The newspapers like to 
poke fun at those who get caught short, 
but concerning those who are caught long 
they maintain silence, because as a rule 
they have just printed some fine earnings 
statements, or reports of increased divi-
dends, hence it would not do to publicize 
the actual state of affairs. 
At any rate, we should pay attention to 
Labor Day, when the crowds return from 
vacation, for that date should find the 
market at a buying level. That is, the 
market should decline after the "fool's 
movement" until we get into September. 
The top of the "fool's movement" appears 
to be August 19-20. 
When we examine the prospects for 
WHEAT during the month of August, we. 
note that we are in a typical trading mar-
ket. From a top during the first few days 
of August, we should see a decline until 
19-1O 
AUO.I-4
AU&.SI
/AUG. I 
AUO-\
WHEAT
the 15th, followed by a rally until the 
26th—and this is a day which may prove 
to be a very important top. From that 
date on there should be a decline until in 
September. 
COTTON presents a somewhat different 
picture.   It shows a narrow, jiggling, up- 
54 
and-down movement, with the trend 
slowly upward. This may be compared 
to the March-April-May-June movement 
of 1936.    The market should end higher 
by the close of August. Watch the 22nd 
to 23rd for a change of trend. These 
dates may prove to be the August top. 
Long positions in LARD and COTTON-
SEED OIL seem to require liquidation 
during the first few days of August, espe-
cially so if September lard has reached 
around 13.65. (Today's price is 11.55.) 
In that case, lard points downward until -
mid-August, to be followed by a rally. 
 
COTTONSEED OIL   & LARD     AUG.»I 
The period of August 20-25 appears to 
be rather toppish in nearly all commodi-
ties that I have analyzed, so that great 
care should be taken not to over-stay the 
long side. 
A FEW thoughts that have come up 
lately: One reader of our magazine said 
to another, who reported it to me: "I am 
quite sure that this fellow Bayer is in 
with the big clique, and that they do 
just the opposite of what he tells us." 
Let me say to that reader, and to all 
readers who may have shared this belief, 
that I am much farther away from the 
"big clique" than he is. First of all, he 
"sees" this phantom clique right in front 
of him, while it is my belief that such a 
clique does not exist at all, and never 
has. 
The man with plenty of money doesn't 
trade in the way you may have sup- 
posed. He buys near the bottom and 
sells near the top. He is not concerned 
with intermediate swings, as we are. We, 
perhaps, can buy a hundred shares of 
stock or a contract of cotton and sell it 
when we figure the price warrants its 
sale. The big fellow, who may have 25,000 
shares of Johns Manville, or of Steel, or 
Gas, did not buy them in a lump, nor 
can he sell them in a lump. It takes time 
to buy, or to dispose of, 25,000 shares of 
almost any stock. For example, just try 
to sell 25,000 shares of Case in one day 
—if you have it. Possibly you could have 
done it when Case was selling around 25 
or 30, but try to sell that much of it at 
170 and see what you get! It just cannot 
be done. This is why such sales are 
made, as far as I can see, while the mar-
ket is heading upward, even though the 
big operator may be selling as much as 
20 or 30 points below the potential top. 
COTTON 
. 31
Another paint is: I write these forecasts 
nearly three months before the events are 
due. For example, the June forecast was 
written about February 28. Therein I 
stated that wheat would make a top on 
April 30, a bottom on May 11, a top on 
May 19, and another bottom between 
June 9 and 11. What did happen? April 
30 was a top, May 11 was a bottom, May 
19 was an important top, and June 8 was 
apparently an important bottom. (We are 
now at this moment only four days past 
this last date.) 
AUG. 14. 
What benefit would I derive from tell-
ing you just the opposite of what my cal-
culations indicate? To help the big fel-
low? He does not need help. Nature 
provided amply for him with a good 
Jupiter and other planetary aids which 
have placed him where he is. But, of 
course, you may be thinking about the 
phantom "rakeoff" that I may be getting 
from the big fellows. There is no "rake-
off." An astrologer, as a rule, is too fully 
occupied "moving" his planets backward 
and forward determining their probable 
influence upon market movements—and 
trying to earn a reputation for clarity and 
accuracy—to permit his judgment to be 
nullified by a "rakeoff." 
Every reader may be sure that, even 
though an error may now and then creep 
into these forecasts because of the astrol-
oger's deficiency of knowledge concerning 
planetary influences, they will never 
present any statements or opinions know-
ingly detrimental to your best interests. 
55 
What Do You Know About Aspects? 
A Chat About the Manner in Which Planetary 
Relationships Are Formed 
By GEORGE BAYER 
FOR 
the benefit of those thou- 
sands of readers who, perhaps for the first 
time, are becoming interested in astrology- 
through reading this magazine, I shall try 
to explain simply what an aspect is, how 
it is formed and how long it lasts. Be 
cause many of you probably are un- 
familiar with "the language of astrology," 
I shall make this explanation in every 
day terms. 
 
Accompanying this article you will see 
a drawing which shows a number of peo- 
 
 
ple walking along the street. These people 
are numbered from 1 to 9. There are 
also shown the corners of 2 buildings, A 
and B, a vacant lot and, as a focal point, 
the eye of an observer. This observer we 
shall place on the 5th floor of building A. 
Our pedestrians are walking along the 
street, passing both buildings at irregu-
lar intervals. These intervals, of course, 
depend upon the individual activities and 
purposes of the pedestrians. Note that 
we see them going and coming. Were 
these people planets, we should say that 
they were either "direct in motion" or 
"retrograde." 
From the eye of the observer you will 
see a dotted line running to the street 
corner, marked F-2. Another dotted line 
runs from the eye of the observer to the 
point F-l, and still a third dotted line 
from the eye of the observer to the cor-
ner of his own building, marked point F. 
The area, or arc, within the observer's 
range of vision is fixed and unchangeable, 
unless 
(a) We move the observer, or 
(b) We move the corners of the build- 
ing. 
This angle, for our purposes, we shall 
say is 60 degrees in width, as measured 
from the place of the observer. 
In the heavens, we have similar condi-
tions. In geocentric astrology the posi-
tions of all planets with regard to each 
other are measured with the Earth as the 
observer. Our points F-l and F represent 
a specific, definite angle. When one planet 
passes point F and another planet passes 
point F-l at the same moment, we say 
they form a 60-degree angle, or sextile 
aspect, as seen by the observer, or from 
the Earth. We do not measure their dis-
tance from each other on the sidewalk— 
which we call the zodiac, ecliptic or path-
way of the Sun—but only as they "come 
into view" as they cross the dotted lines. 
OBSCRVER' 
OH   nrrn   rt.oo»t 
in   winpew 
THE reason that we employ the 
longitudinal distance between planets 
need not be gone into here, for the actual 
distance between two planets has no bear-
ing whatever upon their astrological ef-
fects. We know that the planets of our 
solar system are placed in their orbits at 
various distances from the Earth. Mer-
cury is closer to us than Uranus. Neptune 
is farther away than Uranus, and so on. 
But when measuring the aspects between 
two  planets  as viewed  from  the 
56 
Earth, this differential in distance has no 
meaning whatever. We are concerned 
solely with the "angles" from which their 
rays intersect each other upon the Earth 
and upon the individual inhabitant. 
From ancient times astrologers have 
recognized that when any two planets 
come into aspect with each other—for in-
stance, when they are 0 degrees, 60 de-
grees, 90 degrees, 120 degrees and 180 
degrees apart—then they bring about cer-
tain definite effects upon our world at 
large in the way of weather changes, 
health changes, prosperity, famine, crop 
conditions and so forth. 
These same angular aspects also influ-
ence individuals in definite ways, some 
positive, others negative, and yet others 
neutral, depending upon the angles which 
they simultaneously form to the sensitive 
points in the individual's horoscope. 
There are many theories as to when 
an aspect becomes effective and when it 
exercises its greatest power. Some as-
trologers believe there is an orb of influ-
ence extending a few degrees on either 
side of the "dotted line." Others believe 
that this influence is effective only when 
planets involved are exactly upon the 
dotted line. 
Referring to our illustrations, note the 
person No. 9 who is in full sight of the 
observer at point F on the corner of the 
vacant lot. Let us call the distance from 
point F to point F-2, 45 degrees; and from 
F-2 to F-l, 15 degrees, so that from F to 
F-l is (30 degrees, as seen by the observer. 
Let us also assume that 45-degree angles 
bring about certain changes, which is 
true. If we regard all these persons on 
the dotted line as planets following their 
orbits, we will say that planet No. 3 is 
45 degrees from planet No. 9 and at the 
same time is 60 degrees from planets Nos. 
5 and 8. 
My belief is that when an aspect begins 
to act its effect lasts until another aspect 
is formed. The principal aspects which 
should be used, when measured from one 
planet to another, are 15 degrees apart; 
that is, 0 degrees, 15 degrees, 30 degrees, 
45 degrees, 60 degrees, etc. Inasmuch as 
there are many planets in the heavens, all 
traveling, in the course of time each of 
them will form every possible aspect to 
each of the other planets. These aspects, 
and the times of their culmination, are 
calculated from astrological data, and are 
published in annual booklets which are 
called Ephemerides. 
Of course, because the Moon travels 
around the Earth more swiftly than any 
of the other planets, she makes more 
aspects than all other planets put to-
gether, but for the most part these are 
of a passing and comparatively less im-
portant kind than those of the distant, 
slow-moving planets. 
Let us assume that our planet or 
person No. 6, which in the drawing is 
invisible to the observer, now comes to 
the corner of the building. At that mo-
ment it will be 60 degrees from planet or 
person No. 3. You can choose a suitable 
place from which to observe a situation 
such as this and determine for yourself 
what happens on the limits of your field 
of observation when these two planets or 
persons come into view. They do so sud-
denly—and you are aware continually of 
them until they leave your field of vision. 
Another thought comes to me which 
may help you to understand the relative 
"strength" of one planet as compared to 
that of another. Suppose we consider the 
Moon as a person who lives in the neigh-
borhood. This person passes across the 
observer's arc of vision quite frequently, 
say on going to work and returning home. 
His habits are fairly regular, so that he 
passes the intersection between 8 and 
8:30 in the morning, and again between 
5 and 5:30 in the evening. 
On the other hand, the planets Uranus 
or Saturn may be regarded as occasional 
visitors to the neighborhood. They are 
strangers almost unknown to the inhabi-
tants. They attract more curiosity and 
gossip than the man who passes every 
day. I am alluding in this case not* so 
much to the aspects which these planets 
form, but more to their actual influence 
upon the neighborhood through which 
they pass. 
As we know, the planets rotate through 
the zodiac and in the course of time they 
all must pass our place, that is, the section 
of the zodiac that we define in our sketch. 
The fast-moving planets have time 
between visits to change their appearance 
and habits very slightly. The slower ones, 
however, 
are 
likely 
to 
change 
their 
appearance very much—or to act in a way 
greatly different from the way they did 
the last time they passed. . It is necessary 
to recognize these differences, even when 
planets are passing through the same 
sector, the same house, degree or sign. 
57 
Previewing the September Markets 
An Astrological Interpretation of the Influences 
Operating in Stocks and Commodities 
By GEORGE BAYER 
TODAY I saw a book published 
in 1932, in which the author allegedly re-
veals "all the dirt" that he found in the 
Stock Market in the years around 1929. 
His statements have the appearance of 
being based on facts. He explains how 
syndicates were formed, how stocks were 
"rigged," how the lambs bought what they 
should not have bought, how they got 
stuck," and all the rest of the painful his-
torical details of the period. His opinions 
and viewpoint are those of one who be-
lieves the Stock Market served him ill, 
and it is therefore likely that they are 
shared by a million people in the same 
class. 
Bui let us look at the Stock Market 
from the astrological point of view. 
Each human being has his own horo-
scope. Some have good horoscopes, some 
have bad ones. As the horoscope pro-
gresses, the conditions under which its 
owner functions also changes. Suppose 
that an individual "gets" within a week,, 
a conjunction of Jupiter and Sun, a trine 
of Moon to Sun, and a number of addi-
tional favorable "aspects" from other 
planets. That individual would be in for 
"something big." Such a set-up seldom 
comes to the average person. A native 
with a horoscope of this kind is usually 
born wealthy, and his horoscope indicates 
the continuing possibility of obtaining 
large sums. While a beggar might look 
upon an unexpected dollar as though it 
were a fortune, the man born with an 
extraordinarily fortunate horoscope prob-
ably would consider $50,000 as mere 
chicken feed. 
Thus, when a man with a fortunate 
horoscope comes to the culmination of a 
chain of excellent aspects, a million dol-
lars would seem to be simply "a little 
good fortune." 
Where could such a sum be made 
quickly, unobtrusively, and unnoticed by 
the public? I think any person with a 
horoscope of the type we are discussing 
would turn to the Market. His "feelings" 
would help him select a stock—such as 
Spiegel-May-Stern in 1932, or Auburn in 
1930, or possibly wheat at 1.05 to 1.08 as 
on June 8-12—and he would buy large 
quantities, so that in a few weeks his mil-
lion would be made. That is, his chain of 
aspects would be complete, and he would 
sell. 
The masses, those with mediocre or 
average horoscopes, try very hard to ac-
cumulate money. They sometimes take it 
in "penny-wise" and let go of it "pound-
foolish," as the saying goes. When they 
enter the market, they try to select the 
fastest movers—and they seemingly expect 
any stock they buy will run like mad just 
because they own it. 
In this phenomenon, we have to do with 
"excess motion." I shall try to explain 
what I mean by a few illustrations. 
Consider the tea kettle on a stove. As 
the water comes to the boiling point, 
vapor pours out of the spout. As the tem-
perature of the water continues to rise, 
the vapor will begin to escape from under 
the lid. Unless the heat is removed, this 
process in time will use up all the water 
that was in the kettle. 
The public saves up its money. When 
this money comes to the boiling point, it 
looks for an outlet. Real estate, stocks, 
jewelry, travels, business speculations, 
and what not (the stock market happens 
to be only one kind of outlet) present 
attractive suggestions for the investment 
of the funds that have accumulated so 
slowly. 
When a person decides upon the outlet 
he wants, we find that his mentality and 
outlook change in a most radical manner. 
For some reason, he often seems to-for-
get the value of money. If he has decided 
upon traveling as his outlet, he generously 
58 
tips everyone from porter to headwaiter, 
and then finds that tipping can be his 
biggest item of expense. Such an "inves-
tor," because he is in a field with which 
he is not familiar, usually expects the im-
possible and even does the impossible. 
A strange fact is that these psycholog-
ical prosperity waves seem to hit every-
body at the same time. They all let loose 
of their purse strings simultaneously— 
when stocks look their best, when the 
newspapers publish their prettiest write-
ups. 
NOW, 
when 
everybody 
wants the same thing, its value rises 
swiftly; but when the demand is supplied 
(that is, when all the cash has been 
converted into "securities"—look up that 
word in your dictionary), then those 
persons who have merely the average 
kind of horoscopes begin to look for 
others 
who 
are 
"bigger 
saps" 
than 
themselves, on whom to unl6ad their over-
priced securities. They overlook the 
thought that the fellows who have 
"good" horoscopes did just that— and 
did it to the limit. They do not see that 
the people who can buy high-priced stocks 
in vast quantities are too shrewd to do 
so when the market has reached its top. 
It is for this reason that the rich man 
usually retains his wealth and adds, to it 
the hard-earned money of the average 
man who hopes to make a killing. It is 
true that a few of the average type do 
rise to the heights of market success 
through improved aspects in their pro-
gressed horoscopes, but as a rule such 
people can hope for only small profits 
from speculation. Their "excess motion," 
that is, their surplus funds, will find the 
channels into which nature intends them 
to run—the tea kettle, the steam, the rain 
and back to the tea kettle again! 
My opinion is that the average man 
should be satisfied with average profits in 
the market. His commitments should be 
gauged always so that he will have some- 
thing on which to fall back if things go 
wrong. Each of us has a place in the 
scheme of things, and we should try to 
discover that place and not overstep our-
selves in reaching for the impossible. 
The worst "offenders" against this com-
mon-sense rule are, I believe, those who 
are trading for the first time. An aspect 
hits them which stirs up their desire for 
trade. They see nothing but gold nug-
gets; they spend hours counting their po-
tential profits—and they overplay their 
hand. And what a sad awakening is wait-
ing for them, just around the corner! 
Others may have a deep-seated gam-
bling instinct, as shown by the planetary 
positions in their horoscopes. A man in 
Iowa recently wrote me, "As long as I have 
the inclination to speculate in wheat, I 
think, I cannot do without your analysis, 
so here is my subscription again. . . ." He 
knows that he cannot do without spec-
ulation, so he simply "resigns himself to 
his fate" by continuing his subscription to 
my weekly analysis—which seemingly 
must help him, else he would "do without 
it." 
But getting back to the remarks with 
which I started this article, I believe mar-
ket rigging and the "wickedness" of Wall 
Street are not as bad as they have been 
painted. These debatable factors are 
merely incidents in the operation of 
economic laws which govern the flow of 
funds to the proper places. Excess in one 
particular necessitates shifting to another. 
Whatever "pain" develops in the process 
of shifting seems quite natural to the big 
operator, but it can be very excruciating 
to the little fellow. 
Someone must work up the funds, little 
by little; someone else picks them up in 
chunks. The retailer, the jobber and the 
wholesaler are constantly busy, turning 
over goods, the market, money. Did you 
ever figure out who pays for all the 
tickers, news-tickers, brokerage offices, 
wires, customers' men, partners? For the 
economic services of all kinds that furnish 
 
 
COTTTON 
sep 1
59 
you with the statistics and analyses which 
they have assembled? What is the aim of 
such services? Is it that everyone should 
make money—or what is it? Can you 
imagine anything more absurd than that 
everyone should "make money" in the 
market? Where do the losers come in— 
where does the horoscope of a trader come 
in? 
The book which has prompted these 
remarks has me so interested that I am 
almost "stuck for time" in which to pre-
pare my astrological forecast of the Sep-
tember markets! But here are my con-
clusions, based on calculations made in 
mid-July: 
STOCKS 
Right after September opens, we should 
see a bottom in stocks. This bottom is 
indicated for September 5. From that date 
forward, we should experience a some-
what dragging upward move, without 
much excitement until September 24 or 
25. From then until the month closes, 
there probably will be a decline. 
WHEAT 
Wheat should make a bottom on, the 
first day of the month. A rather strong 
upward movement should follow, cul-
minating on September 10. After that 
date, divergent forces seem to be active, 
one trying to push wheat up, the other 
trying to jerk it downward. The best we 
can expect out of such wrestling is a side-
wise movement. The overweight, as far 
as I am able to judge at this time, should 
be on the up-side. Those readers who use 
my ellipse should have no difficulty in 
working out the chart formation for this 
period, which formation will be quite 
similar to that which developed in mid-
July. However, as we approach the end 
of September we are likely to find that the 
force which is trying to pull the market 
down will prove to be the strongest after 
all. The period from September 10 to 
the end of the month should be a typical 
trading market, active and with wide 
swings—the finest kind of a market in 
which to get whipsawed if due care is not 
exercised. 
COTTON 
September seems to bring a "nice" up-
ward movement in cotton, without much 
reaction, and when reactions do occur I 
believe cotton should be picked up for 
higher levels later on. 
60 
Planetary Correspondences 
Some Oddities of Deduction Which May Be 
Used in Market Forecasting 
By GEORGE BAYER 
HAT is expected of a fore-
caster by those who may be 
classed 
as 
"average" 
traders? 
My 
correspondence seems to show that most 
of them are solely concerned with 
discovering the' quickest, fastest and 
biggest runner that sells around one or 
two dollars. 
Beyond doubt, traders are entitled to 
all they can get, and from the forecaster's 
point of view it is a pity that they can-
not always get as much as they want. 
The forecaster gets busy each Septem- 
ber. He tries to foresee what the Gov-
ernment will do; what the Rockefellers, 
Morgans, Investment Trusts, and the 
myriad large and small traders have "de-
cided" to do in the coming year. He tries 
to discover if they plan to push the mar-
kets up or down. And having solved the 
problem according to his best judgment, 
he then determines the dates on which 
the trend may be expected to change from 
buying to selling, or from selling to buy-
ing. Not only that, he also tries to de-
termine the approximate levels at which 
stocks will stop at these critical dates. He 
goes through the same process for 
W 
wheat, because it has been demonstrated 
many times that wheat does not neces-
sarily move with stocks but, on the con-
trary, often moves in the opposite direc-
tion. 
There is one curious thing about those 
who subscribe to forecasts. They are usu-
ally "jittery" from the time the forecast 
comes into their hands until its time limit 
expires. Their faith in the forecast seems 
to be very slight, which is probably due 
to their own inability even to figure out 
what the market may do within the im-
mediate hour, not to speak of what may 
happen in the space of two months or 
nine months. 
This reminds me of certain traders met 
in brokerage offices, who occasionally ac-
cost me with, "I just would like to make 
a hundred dollars between now and the 
close—tell me what I should do." Oh, yeah! 
I wonder if these folks have ever 
watched the weather forecasters. I recall 
one case in which sunshine was predicted 
for each "next" day for five successive 
days, and the more it was predicted, the 
worse the weather became. The weather 
forecasters have at their disposal a va-
riety of super-scientific instruments and 
devices, yet somehow, sometimes, they 
seem to be "not quite right." 
THE market forecaster, it is 
true, has oodles of past-performance 
charts covering many years, and (if he is 
an astrologer) a slim little book called an 
Ephemeris. He does not, however, rely 
upon the "aspectarian" given in the 
Ephemeris, meaning the tabulated times 
at which certain aspects are formed be-
tween the planets, nor does he use the 
parallels of declination. He heeds neither 
declinations nor latitudes. What he does 
look for is the exact degree and minute 
of longitude occupied by certain planets 
61 
from day to day, and he compares these 
positions with the past performances of 
the market over a long period of years. 
(I am speaking now of the forecaster who 
employs the same methods as myself.) 
One of the most important "secrets" is 
contained in the law of expansion and 
contraction. What in a previous cycle 
seemed to be a normal, well-grown sign 
of Scorpio may turn out to be a Scorpio 
that is so skinny and elongated that, un-
less you know it really is a Scorpio, you 
would never recognize it. 
To illustrate, let us say that a previous 
cycle is represented by a short, heavy-set 
man, weighing perhaps 300 pounds, whose 
body-form extends over a period of six 
Thirty-two teeth in the permanent set at twenty-five yens of age. 
 
months. The new cycle—the "alter ego" 
—is a tall, slim fellow, six-feet-four, and 
weighing 140 pounds. 
Although in the calculations both cycles 
are identical, the latter may cover only a 
month. The former may move within a 
range of 10 points, according to what the 
averages may show, while the latter may 
move only 5 points in the averages. The 
accompanying illustration (No. 1) should 
clarify this idea. 
From this, it will be apparent that, 
while it is comparatively easy to discover 
the beginning and the end of the cycle 
(or man), we shall encounter difficulties 
when we try to measure his body struc-
ture. 
NATURALLY, an astrologer who 
is absorbed in his work will see corre-
spondences everywhere, because such cor-
respondences are to be found everywhere. 
Sometimes, however, the reason for such 
correspondences, or analogies, may be 
very obscure or indiscernible. 
You may be interested in one such cor-
respondence that has come to my attention 
—a correspondence which on the surface 
seems  to  be  far-fetched,  yet which  on 
close examination presents a number of 
startling evidences of being quite real. 
On the chance that it will at least prove 
entertaining, I will present it here: 
Each planet should be regarded as a 
"human being" traveling with his feet 
165 degrees distant from his head and 30 
degrees apart (i.e., a planet at 0 Aries 
would have one foot at 15 Libra and the 
other at 15 Virgo). He also has arms, and 
we may reasonably allow that he pos-
sesses teeth, ears, a mouth and eyes. All 
these points, to be symmetrical, must be 
placed at fixed positions, or angles. It is 
the teeth that we are to deal with here. 
Examination of the accompanying illus-
tration (taken from Bundy's "Anatomy of 
Physiology") clearly discloses a striking 
similarity between the lines on a stock 
market graph and the outlines of an ordi-
nary set of human teeth. The corre-
spondence between these two sets of lines 
is further demonstrated when we include 
the outlines of the roots of the teeth. 
Bundy's "Anatomy" tells us: "The 
teeth make their appearance in two sets, 
called temporary and permanent. Both 
sets of teeth are formed during intra-
uterine life and the nutritive condition of 
the mother has much to do with the sound-
ness of the tooth construction. Abundance 
of mineral salts, especially calcium, in the 
mother's diet at this time is essential to 
the building of sound teeth in the infant. 
"The temporary teeth are 20 in number; 
their eruption usually begins at about 7 
months and proceeds in the following 
order: 
"2 lower central incisors at 7 months; 
2 upper central incisors at 8 to 10 months; 
2 upper lateral incisors at 9 to 12 months; 
2 lower lateral incisors at 12 to 15 months; 
4 first molars (1 right, 1 left in each jaw) 
at 12 to 15 months; 4 canines (1 right, 1 
left in each jaw) at 16 to 22 months; 4 
second molars (1 right, 1 left in each jaw) 
at 24 to 30th months—20 teeth in the tem-
porary set at 2% years of age"." 
Now for the "correspondence." In R. H. 
Charles' "Pseudepigrapha" (Oxford), in 
the Book of Jubilees, we find on page 15: 
"There were 22 heads of mankind from 
Adam to Jacob, and 22 kinds of work 
were made until the seventh day. This 
is blessed and holy; and the former is also 
blessed and holy; and this one serves with 
that one for sanctification and blessing." 
These  22   "heads" represent  the  20 
temporary teeth, in this way: 
10 teeth on each side gives 20 teeth. 
62 
10 heads on each side gives 20 heads. 
1 extra head on each side means that 
each 10 is a unit (1), or the beginning of 
a new cycle. 
It is to be noted that medical science 
has discovered that the temporary set of 
teeth is complete at 2V2 years. We know 
that the Mars cycle is of approximately 
the same duration. Therefore, the growth 
of teeth apparently depends upon the mo-
tion of Mars, counting from the beginning 
of a life. 
 
IF WE now make a drawing of 
the zodiac and put the teeth into it, re-
garding the zodiacal circle as 2 1/2 years, 
or 360 degrees, in length, we are enabled 
to discern those "temporary points" which 
are of the greatest importance. The whole 
story of the Jubilees, the story of Adam 
may never have had a plausible explana-
tion therefor. 
Admittedly, the "correspondence" be-
tween a set of teeth and market move-
ments seems, superficially, to be far-
fetched. But when we examine the cor-
respondence closely we seem to find a 
much more denned correspondence than 
exists between the market and such fac-
tors as kilowatts, blast furnaces and car 
loadings. 
Among the readers of this magazine 
there probably are many who have 
studied chart formations on stocks and 
commodities. Others there may be who 
in future will need only to look at the 
teeth—canines, molars, etc.—in order to 
find the "pictures" that repeat in stock 
and commodity price formations, which 
change from high to low, or from the 
upper jaw to the lower. 
Those who forecast the movements of 
stocks and commodities must have re-
course to many sciences in order to estab-
lish comparisons. But there are some 
things which, in this connection, he simply 
loathes, and these things are earnings, 
dividends and statistics. 
THE CAMIMt TOOTH IS THE AiaN OFARIE9 
THE MOLARS ABC  THE  HFAP   AMD TWO   -
SHOULDER 
and Eve and their descendants — Cain, 
Abel, Seth, Awan, Azura, Enoch, Enos, 
Kenan, Mahalel, Jared and Enoch II— 
shows us that we have in the Adam story 
ten male births, two female births, seven 
marriages, one death and one period of 
mourning—a total of 21 different items. 
The "points" are called "mountains" in 
the Bible, such as Mt. Gilead, Mt. Sinai, 
etc. 
I cannot go into the transition of the 
teeth from the temporary to the perma-
nent set, nor can I elaborate as to the 
order in which the temporary teeth are 
discarded, nor how many permanent teeth 
will come to replace them, however in-
teresting these details may be. 
Applying this correspondence to the 
stock market, we must see that the so-
called "young" stocks, those which have 
been listed less than one full cycle, neces-
sarily must move differently than the 
"old" ones, some of which already have 
their "wisdom" teeth. The same is true 
with commodities, for we can readily see 
that the September option of wheat dur-
ing September of any year may work dif-
ferently than the July wheat which has 
just come on the Board, that is, was born 
within the past few days. All who trade 
for any considerable length of time are 
acquainted with this fact, although they 
Previewing the October Markets 
Stocks to Rally After a Decline; Wheat to Present a 
Trading Market; Cotton to Move Slowly Upward, 
63 
By GEORGE BAYER 
Foremost Interpreter of Market Trends 
Mr. Bayer has been so busy with so 
many things that he has had to plunge 
right into his market forecasts, without 
his usual interesting and informative 
general comments on the philosophy 
and mechanics of market forecasting. 
In spite of the brevity of his "Pre-
view" this month, however, we are sure 
the trends which he outlines will en-
gage the attention of his regular read-
ers. In coming issues, you will find more 
of the inimitable astrological articles for 
which Mr. Bayer is so widely known.— 
Editor. 
STOCKS 
w 
E SHOULD have made a top 
around September 25, from which a de-
cline marked the balance of the month. 
As we enter the month of October, this 
decline should keep on, in fact, become 
more intense. 
The declining tendencies should 
change about face on the 9th and a 
rally may be expected for stocks up to 
the 25th of the month, whereby about 
half of the loss should be recovered. 
After the 25th of October, a reversal 
should set in, and as we turn into No-
vember all the gain made between Oc-
tober 9 and 25 should be cancelled 
again, and then some. 
In the event that the market gets 
very strong the day after Columbus 
Day, or opens with a gap upward, this 
would be a sign of two days of sharp 
reversal, temporary in nature, only to 
begin moving upward once more to 
October 25. 
 
OCT 1 
STOCKS
Oct 26-20 
OCT. 3I
WHEAT 
The 
month of 
October shows, in its previous cycle, 
many conflicting tendencies, one planet 
pushing prices upward and the other 
pushing them down, very nearly on the 
exact corresponding dates, so that, as 
far as a forecast of wheat for the 
month of October is concerned, we are 
faced with great difficulties. 
It appears to me that the whole 
month should be a period of accumula-
tion, with sharp, short swings up and 
down, getting nowhere in particular— 
a splendid trading market, most likely 
within a 6 to 8 cents limit range. 
Critical dates for reversals should be: 
64 
 
October 1, October 7, October 14, also 
October 15, October 18, October 21, Oc-
tober 25 and October 30. 
The latter date should end the uncer-
tainty, i.e., the sidewise movement, in a 
comparatively narrow range, and a new 
cycle upward should begin. Chart stu-
dents who plot wheat daily may be able 
to discern in this sidewise movement the 
picture of a Scorpio as it develops, and 
if that should come then trading would 
be rather easy. We had such a one in 
June this year, tall and narrow, but 
slender. 
COTTON 
We may expect during this month some 
stagnation, 
or 
consolidation 
of 
the 
previous upward movement, whereby 
the trend should continue upward just 
the 
same. This period should be 
followed by higher levels after October 
25, at which time some sort of "break-
away, upward" may be expected. 
65 
Time Factors  
IN THE STOCK MARKET 
By   GE0RG.E   BAYER 
WHEN 
JUPITER 
touches 
a 
certain 
degree in the Zodiac, something important 
happens to certain stocks and commodities on the 
Stock Exchange. When Venus  touches a cer- 
tain degree in the Zodiac, something just as 
important happens to certain other stocks and 
commodities. When Mars touches a certain 
degree in the Zodiac, something important hap-
pens to still other socks and commodities. 
The Stock and Commodity Markets move 
according to cyclic laws, and these cycles are 
determined by the motions of the planets around 
the Zodiac In his book, Time Factors in the 
Stack Market, George Bayer, whose forecasts 
of Stock and Commodity Trends have been 
featured in various astrological publications 
for a number of years, tells what these cycles 
are, what these sensitive degree arc and what 
hap-pens when certain planets touch them. He 
ex-plains how to find the dates on which these 
important things happen to certain stocks, and 
shows how to determine whether the happenings 
will be favorable or unfavorable, bear or bullish. 
The rules presented in "Time Factors in the Stock 
Market" are the product of many cars of experiment 
and research on the part of Mr. Bayer. Steadily he 
has added to his store of information relative to the 
planetary influences and their special methods of 
influencing stock market movements, and in this 
book he reveals a great mass of information which 
the average trader can learn to use. We have seen 
many letters to Mr. Bayer in which the writers assert 
that the methods of forecasting Stock and Commodity 
Movements given in this book are the most remarkably 
accurate they have ever seen. 
