
--- Page 1 ---
THE EGG OF COLUMBUS,

Or

The Hidden Movements in |

Stocks and Commodities Markets

by |
George Bayer

 

--- Page 2 ---
THE EGG OF COLUMBUS

The Hidden Movements in
Stocks and Commodities Markets

by

GEORGE BAYER
P.O. Box 1142 © Carmel, California:

SAP tLe
A te t in lo
oo i

i Fri i
hos : am i rf fon 7
te pee. :
pepe eset

— yA —

 

COPYRIGHT 1942
by George Bayer

"Aa come not inte life with any knowledge

of it, end as my likings are for what is eld,

1 busy myzalf in seeking knowledge. there,
Confucius.

--- Page 3 ---
The matter dealt with in this work is the hardest and most difficult
subject anyone could touch. It attempts to explain the ways to make
money in markets by the use of atrange, natural, but true cycles.

A tiny little bit of the surface is here but scratched, when we consider
that some writers have used up 20,000 pages such as Swedenborg did;
Athenaeus used for the same about 3,000 pages; one old Greek text in

my possession used 18 pages to cover the laws. And] try to condense the
job down to the same: size,

Of course, every reader will realize quickly, as soon as he hes com-
pleted his first reading, thet the 20,000 page work of Swedenborg covers
everything of life that possesses a cycle of any kind or description, while
we, for prectical trading, require but the very common major moves to
make money in markets. It would be a different story if we would want
to gat things down so close that each of the 400 or 500 contracts traded
at this time during a trading day would be specified to the moment as
well ‘as to the exact eighth price. This actually is possible end in this di-
rection I am at présent working in my own research. You might gasp at
this statement, but you soon will stop when you are through with this
work, because. you -will have to catch your own breath to digest.

Do not think for a moment that there were not people living ages ago
who were much smarter and wiser than anyone living today. I have my
wisdom (that little which I have). from them, and don't owe the present
generation a nickel’s worth of thanks. The present generation.actually
held me back many years, having to wade through their works first unti]
hard thinking put me on the right trail,

'—GEORGE BAYER

Carmel, California
January 2nd, 1942

--- Page 4 ---
THE FEELING of security, the scare of the unknown, the what-will-be,

are terms 80 great and so all-embracing that wa could write volumes
about them, and, truly, volumes about that had been written by philos-
ophers mostly would-be philosophers who did net knew what they were
talking.

And yet, the entire problem about a feeling of security, about the
scare of the unknown can be solved with one single word, even with one
single letter: TT (Greek pi, 3.1415953). This short statement is so huge and
tremendous that It cannot possibly penetrate in your mind or anybody
else's mind without years of research on the matter of movements, be they
movements of wheat, of stocks, of people, nations or what-have-you.

We could not possibly think of a forecast of what is due to come, for
example, what will be coming in wheat or in stocks next year, if such
movements had not been figured out already in the regular cycle of
events, Thus, all we can acomplish is to locate the cycle, then locate the
place in which our present time moves in this cycle and lastly, aet accord-
ingly. The latter is not as easy as it looks to the novice. We must know
that each one of our present living creatures on earth in itself or in himsel!
is moving in a cycle all his own which may be contrary to the cycle of
something else for a while, or for all times, or, it may be in harmony,
Therefore, he whose cycle, for example, is completely disharmonious to
stocks, will never think of stocks, will never trade in them er have the
least bit to do with them. Others, whose cycle is somewhat in harmony
with the stock cycle, will trade stocks, and—win, when the eyele is har-
monious, and will lose if it is inharmonious at a certain time.

If your cycle shows that you will be unhappy in metriage, you will
with the aid of the devil or whatever be his name, find the right female
or male that makes life a living hell to you. You -will go happily to the
altar with a big rope around your neck, with a feeling of security and
without scare of the unknown, without even thinking about that “what-
will-be.”

But, wa don't have to take married life at.alll We can just as well
lake a stock and apply the very same rule. Just read over the preceding
paragraph once more and substitute for “marriage” the words “stock
trading” and for female or male use the word “stock.”

The Dutchman ses:

Als je verliefd bent, ben je stapelgek,

Als je verloofd bent, heb je den strop al om je nek,
Maar,—als je getrowd bent, toan krijg je pas de strat,
Daar hang je aan den galg, en niemand snijd je er af.

The English version being:

If you fell in love, you are crazy,

If you get engaged, then you already put the rope around your
neck.

-But—when you get married, then you really get punished,

Because you hang on the gallows, and nobody cuts you off,

3

--- Page 5 ---
_ Speaking about stocks and applying this little idea, we all know how
hepelul people get right smack on top of a bull movement, how they buy
stocks irrespective of price,—the volume of trading shows it, As soon as.
they have bought, they have the rope around their necks, stocks begin
gradually to sink and they hang on the gallows and nobedy cuts them
off,—until we reach a major low: example, March 1937 to December 194].
Only when they are at the bottom do people sell their stocks, after they
have tumbled 40, 50, 70, and more points.

You may remember from schoo! days that in Antiquity they hed the
Seven Wonders of the World to show. This is what Encyclopedias tell you.

They were:

. the Pyramids of Egypt

. the Hanging Gardens of Semiramis at Babylon
. the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus

. the Sitting Statue of Zeus (Jovis) at Pheidas

. the Mausoleum in Halicarnassus

. the Colossus at Rhodes

. the Light Tower at Alexandria

These things actually did exist once, some still exist. That those
things had not been made and constructed just for fun or to create jobs
any one who thinks deeper will realize. What they represented has been
the subject of much study among .
the learned world for many cen-
turies. What these students have
found or discovered, sorry to say,
is incorrect, to say the least. It will
pay you to read on these subjects
in ony encyclopedia after you
have completed this study and
you surely will admit that my
statement is right.

These. productions represent
nothing but the cycles of life in
general, the, cycles of bull and
bear markets, the cycles which we
are going to use in trading Stocks
and Gommodities, especially
wheat.

These Seven Wonders of the
World are representative of a
Dinner from Soup to Nuts and
even beyond the nuts.

Since the field of “Wonder-
land” is enormous and space does
not allow to broaden out too far
(we are here to find the cycles for
stocks and commodities), | wish
to draw your attention ta the pic- ; er =
ture reproduced on the right. lt ha triomphe do -Thomas d'&quin, L's he je Oe Bevery dit Caren KV" tala}

~I Gin & 6) bo

 

--- Page 6 ---
is taken from “La Vie des Saints” (Life of the Saints) published at Lille,
France in 1889 by the Abbot Pradier, curator of St, Agne (Dordogne),
approved, as it says, by the Archbishop of Perigueux (France). | own a
copy of it and the picture is found on page 97 with the heading: Le
triomphe de S. Thomas d’Aquin, meaning: The triumph of St. Thomas of
Aquini. It seems to be a photographic copy from ¢ picture by Benozzo di
Gozzoli of the 15th Century.

In this picture we find the Seven Wonders of the World reproduced
in some other way above. We find the Trine or Pyramid also. Close in-
spection will reveal even much more and I hope you will find it yoursell.

This work does not go into further details about this picture, because
we are touching the Seven Wonders of the World in a quite different
way, by using the idea of Athengeus, (Athens, capital of Greece). In
ancient Greece there were quite a few heathen philosophers, who were
supposed lo have lived there as history teeaches. The most important
ones were Aristotle and Plato. They taught their pupils by “wandering
around.” It is advisable that you read in a library or in an encyclopedia
all that can be read about them. Alter (only aller...) you have done
that, inspect the picture on page 4 again carefully and leok at the heads
of the two figures that “accompany” the Saint of Aquini. Next to their
heads you find the two heathens’ names: Aristotle and Plato and be sure
and believe that I did not put those names there myself. They were there
in the original, but the public who looks at pictures, looks the same way
at them as traders look at the tape or on their wheat charts: they see
nothing,

Alter giving you two good shocks out of the blue sky let us go to

the third one which treats the Seven Wonders of the World in a little
different way, even though, it is exactly the same.

In Swedenborg'’s Genasis, vol. I, page 374, we find the following:
“They who have once conceived opinions, though most false, cling to
them so obstinately that they are not even willing to hear anything thet
is contrary to them (to the false opinions); so they never suffer themselves
to be informed, even if the truth be placed belore their eyes,”

Swedenborg, who lived from 1688 to 1772 was the only man within
that period who knew all about the secret inner meaning of the Bible
and his 40 edd volumes on the subject explain it sentence by sentence.

While | do not believe that he was just then thinking about traders
when he wrote that sentence, it flts them like a glove.

The traders, each and all, get somehow vaccinated with false opin-
ions as to what moves markets through newspapers and their commenta-
tors, through books written on the subject by people who know notning
whatever about the cause of the movements. Once their ideas that frost
in lowa or rain in Kansas moves wheat up and down or that car loadings
influence the price of railroad stocks, etc, areimplantedinte a man’s
mind, they are very diflicult to eradicate. That is why the public pokes
fun at you when you say: “I use special cycle movements.” They think
you are dippy. when newspapers say it's the rain and they “know”, at
least they think they know.

--- Page 7 ---
You most likely have acquired from me the various works published,
such as "Time Factors in the Markets", the “Handbook on Trend De-
termination for Stocks and Commodities”, alse the “Previews” of 1939-
1940 which contained many articles on trading which can be used and
applied any time,

Each of these works have as the basis special cyclic movements and
neither rain or sunshine, nor frost and or kilowatt output. All these ideas
have been eliminated, so that we were just naked, so to say, and had
to start from scratch with something else. It is not something new, as
some people might want to put it, because all the ancient books explain
nothing but eyclic movements, whether it be the Bible, or the Koran,
Cicero or the Gallic War ef Caesar, Thus, all the ancient Hebrew writings,
the Egyptian, Greek and Latin Writers explain only cyclic movements
and their effect upon humen beings and NOTHING else.

There is also a Greek work extant, called Athenaeus, the Deipno-
sophists or the Banquet, similar to Dante's Banquef and many other
Banquets that are treated of in Ancient Works. The meaning of the whole
story is: The arrangement of the cycles-in. correct sequences.

We know from our own works all about the cyclical influences that
they are present and on which days we must expect a change of trend
in markets. We have absolutely no doubt in that respect. The only diffi-
culty which we experience, for example, with the use of our ellipses,
6 inch and 9 inch whether itis to be a 6 inch ellipse or a 9 inch, whether
it even could be but half of a 6 inch ellipse and we break out of it, In
many cases we have no trouble, but, for salety’s sake, when we heave
Gdditional help to assure us of the correct trend, so much the better.

l eriginally bought my 5 vol. set of Athenaeus on January 15th, 1940
and went at it immediately to co-ordinate ils contents with all the other
works of similar type. The “Banquet idea connected immediately with
Dante and his “Banquet”. I found that this Greek Banquet was much
more elaborate than Dante's. Since we must take for granted that the
ancient works were written with the idea in the man's mind to help others
grasp the Laws of Motion, their style is rather monotonous and dry on the
surface and not to the liking of the average reader. However, this work
ond all the others are full of juice if one knows what he or they are talking
about—that they are explaining repeating cycles.

From the study of Athenaeus I have taken what I am about to show
you in this little work about cycles, When, alter a whilé, you are through
reading this and you still believe that markets are “men-made”, like
millions of traders de and always will do, al! my work went into the
wrong channel and I am sorry. However, there is a natural lew which
says: you'll get what is coming to you and you never will gat that which
is not meant for you and therefore you should be able to see quickly how
marvellous Nature shows itself all: things.

To make sure that our mind, rather vour mind, js net drifting into
wrong conceptions, be it said right here that Nature itself is dead and
is not alive. What makes it alive is some agency, whatever that may be.

&

--- Page 8 ---
This agency activates Nature*, When we consider that Fixed Stars in the
Heavens form distinct pictures of animals, such as the Swan, the Fishes,
the Bear, etc., which are a part of Nature, and then note that the actual
animals are runing around our globe by the millions, which are Hittle
tiny fixed stars in themselves. You may object and say: these earthly
animals die. Yes, but don't forget thet they perpetuate themselves
through progeny, so that, even though the individuals die, they only die
AFTER the next progeny or cycle has begun to live. This means for our
purpose (keep that well in mindl) that a certain cycle begins, passes
through the cycle, but, before it ends, conceives a newcycleand only
during the time thatthe old cycle is about dying off the new one is
already running and only alter the new one has been running for a while
dees the old one die of itself.

THIS MUST BE CLEAR. There is an interweaving of cycles. Those
who work with ellipses know that the new cycle has to be set within the.
end of the old ellipse!

The secrets contained in Athenaeus could be written with one word
and he actually has called a 3,000 page work with the title: Dinner-table,

As we now can understand from what was explained above, the
cycles of markets, of business, the Hfe of a human being, bank accounts,
trading accounts, wheat, cotton, and every commodity consists of a series
of cycles, long and short, which series form one whole. Links form a chain.
We may call these cycles serpents. The formation of these serpents is
represented in things which we eat and IN THE ROTATION HOW we eat
the various foods. You would not start with the roast when eating a seven
course dinner, but you begin with the Hors d‘Oeuvre or Antipasto, thet is
with radishes, green onions, pickles, salami, anchovies, caviar.

The serpent, called Stock Markat, had its beginning on May 17, 1792.
The beginning of trading Commodities we do not know, but, on hand of
what I shall show here with a dinner-table, we can always find and
locate the link of these serpents at any period in which we may be for
the moment.

Of course, anyone who makes an invention, has to know about the
subject thoroughly and discover weaknesses in it which ean be improved
or changed. I am not inventing anything here for you, but simply digging
out again rules that had been known to the Ancients thoroughly. But,
when the thing has been re-discovered and made known to others, they
in tum have to be acquainted with markets as to their generalities in
order to understand the improvements that were made.

This knowing or knowledge requires that we know something ahout
eating and the series in which the various dishes of food are served at a
dinner. Purely for record I shall give the correct sequence of how a
dinner shall be served:

We begin with the Hors d‘Oeuvre and acocktaiL Next follows the
soup. Alter the soup comes the fish with which is served white wine.

Nature is moved by a thing lound engraved on every violin which is made.
It has the form of an “i. I will not define if any closer, but that is the “ll ‘

7

--- Page 9 ---
When the fish has been eaten, we start with the roast and with the roast
goes red wine. After the roast comes the sweet stuff; with it should be
served champagne. Then we get cheese and crackers, and lastly, we get
almonds and nuts with which goes a little Cagnac (brandy).

That there are potatoes served with fish we all know and also know

that they are either sma!l round rissolees potatees or small boiled po-
tatoes with parsley butter. With roast is always served a vegetable or
two, a baked potato or some French fried potatoes, also a salad.

Note especially the types of potatees I] am quoting here. In order to
make matters for our purpose very clear, | have to mention yet the shoe
string potatoes which often are served with fish, but which become
French fried potatoes when they are served with the roast.

The sooner you werk your mind fully into such a menu and go over
ence more the various dishes and their sequence, the better you will
understand the cycles of markets and don't forget, that you hava a choice
on the soup: thiek soup or clear soup...

When we remember that the Scientists, Economists and others use
all kinds of theories, such as the Dow Theory to forecast markets, we shall
deviate from them by simply using common sense and Nature which
feeds us the food so that we can live and—the market lives upon the very
same food, though not actually food, but food in pictures, arranged in
the form of a regular first class meal, including wine and champagne.

One group is guessing for want of having something, our method is
well ordered, based on solid ground and brought over from the Ancients
under covered language for our use.

It is net that I want to belittle these economists. ] was in their shoes
once, too, I believed everything I read except what one would say to me
about planetary influence upon us until some fellow forecasted an event
for ma five months ahead which came true to the day and to the exact
effect. This original believing cost me plenty, first in dollars and cents,
and after that, in years of patient work digging into holes where few dare
to dig to locate the causes of market movements. The greatest difficulty
was to dig into the right hole. | tried optics; | tried the magnetic needle;
I tried the laws of sound; ! tried colors; | tried “book -astrology, until |
reached actual astronomy as shown in the “Handbook of Trend De-
termination” and last net least I have become a full fledged cock to
crown the thing off. All these things combined had te do with Nature, but
they do not show patterns equally well. So that as a final answer we
must say: Astronomy plus Gastronomy (the art of eating) gives us what
we want. This shall now be shown.

_ Anyone with a fair amount of brains can study chemistry and special-
ize in it; else, he can study physics and specialize, mathematics and
specialize, astronomy cand figure the way the. stars move, be a cook and
cook delicious food. These individual branches of science deliver chem-
ists, engineers, mathematicians, astronomers — useful in the business
world. But, you never will make an astronomer out of a chemist, nor a
physicist out-of a chemist, etc. To forecast markets, i.e., to find the laws

--- Page 10 ---
to forecast, one has to be a linguist first of all, in order to read the old
texts and their difficult lanquage, aside of translating the meaning of their
words into what it actually means, then, you have to find out into which
lield of science the meanings belong, to use them right, so that unsur-
mountable difficulties represent themselves right along. One who is not
exible in thought and mind, never would think to call a small gap an
onion or a radish or a potato rissolee and to call a reaction after the
fish formation “white wine".

Not only do we have to knew about eating and the various foods that
are served and in which sequence this serving is done when forecasting
markets, but we even must have some knowledge about our body, in
short we must be aven a doctor. What I say now js nol any too refined,
bul tt is necessary for clear understanding of the principles involved:
What we eal at a dinner has to be disposed again; what we drink has
also to be disposed again. We cannot eat and drink together (eat mecns
“up” and drink means “down");. therefore, we cannot dispose of food at
the very same moment as we dispose of waste water. Furthermore; de-
pending upon the disposition of a person who has eaten and drunk and
the type of lood as well as drink that has been consumed, so will be the
type and shape of the wastes released later on. Some people are fond of
lish, others are fond of turkeys with RED cranberry sauce; others are fond
of soup; the poor people have to live more on soup than on turkeys, more
on potatoes than on peas. The rich people have everything their heart
desires and for this reason a “complete” dinner is always for the rich.
The poor people as a rule {I say so because | need this idea for the ex-
planations of my cycles) have a difficulty deposing waste matters, while
urinating is rather easy; others again who have “eaten” something
wrong contract diarrhoea and get deadly sick. Those especially who
drink much water, wine or other beverages have plenty liquid available
for disposal.

From ail this we can now recognize the first time that the markets,
stocks, wheat, hides, cocea and all other represent fully a man who lives,
eats and disposes of waste matter.

This is the whole secret | have re-discovered.

Therefore, if from now on you take any chart, say the chart for wheat,
daily high and lew plottings, all you do is look for the Hors d‘Oeuvre,
then for the soup, afterwards for the fish and its fins, then for the roasted
bird with its neck sticking out and even its beak from which it spits out a
nut or an almond, then you have gone through the complete bull phase.
And you know the phase is over because (pardon now the rough but
illustrative words) he has to get rid of that what he has eaten and begins
lirst to p-- and then to s--- and he repeats that several times, in fact, he
does this so often until the tongue hangs out of his mouth, because he is
so hungry again that he MUST eat at once.

The hanging out of the tongue is the surest sign that he is cleaned
from what he had eaten and you never will forget the picture of a tongue
if you see one: Wheat, May 27th to August I6th, 1940 was a tongue.

9

--- Page 11 ---
CHICAGO WHEAT

CHICAGO WHEAT

1a

=“ Pe

ae
BERLE :
a
do '
fi
: 4. F 4
oye |
ig pb | :
'

eee

e
Z

Os

 

'
a
+
‘

x .
rrr Bey Baan
POET) ke -

/ on ma.

af

? a
a a
STE

 

 

-

  

zt
oo :
oo

t ¥
: wt

-

--- Page 12 ---
 

      
       
 

CHICAGO WHEAT

 
  

Pay ce
tr a
aA foe

1H

--- Page 13 ---
While I think of it, ie., about the 6 and 9 inch ellipse or half of the 6
inch ellipse, it is new plain te say when we have to use each individual
one: The tongue takes half an ellipse; the fish takes a 6 inch, the bird and
its neck can take a 9 inch, whereas the bird dlone might be satistied with
a 6 inch size ellipse. The disposal “bear move” takes a 6, 9. even 12 or
18 inch ellipse, depending upon the size of the dinner, whereby the first
p. can be a 6 inch ellipse with a comeback of half an ellipse when fhe
hill of s. is made, following by another p. andas.andap. andas., ete.,
until al] intake is thoroughly disposed which can be seen ONLY when the
tongue sticks out downwards.

The size of the move (always applicable to any commodity or active
stock) depends upon the size of the tongue that sticks out. In this tongue
hidden within we find our Hors d’Qeuvre, such as olives, green onions,
pickles, salami, anchovies, i.e., very small moves with gaps aplenty, short
ups, reversals, gaps down, green onion, followed by a little radish (gap)
upward (excuse mis-statement: red is down, so a red radish is a gap
down!). The ferm and shape of the Anti-paste or Hors d'Qeuvre is that of
a tongue hanging out of the mouth downwards.

This happened in wheat from May 27th to August 16th, 1940,

On that day (August 16, 1940) everybody was in a soup. It was a
thick soup, lasting 10 days. Thin soups we had in hides lor example on
Thanksgiving 1937 of which you have a chart in the Handbook for check-
ing.

Therefore, the soup lasted from August 16th to August 26th, 1941.
This is a period of sweating for the longs, of selling out distress commit-
ments and weak accounts. The previous period, the Hors d’Oeuvre period
is the one that fatiques all long accounts, where timid buying comes in,
but which is quickly chased out again when radishes make their appear-
ance. They buy on olives, live on hope, during the green onion, but sell
on the anchovies and radishes. Jiggle back and forth is all we then can
expect and no chanee for a "break-out" upwards until we get the soup!
Plenty of money can be made while the tongue is formed and we don't
heave to be timid either, short or long, both ways, The form of the tongue
is the limit within which the movement has to run.

Alter the soup comes the fish upwards. It starts with the tail and not
with the head. Nature dees thet. Incidently a few months ago | actually
saw how’a big fish eats the small ones and it reminded me immediately
of that fish from August 26th to November 18th, 1940, made by wheat.
I bought in Monterey an 8 pound fish at the wharf and had it cleaned
there. When they opened the belly ‘there were two fish in it tail at the tail
side of the big fish and heads towards the head of the big one, indicating
that they catch their food moving FORWARD, gulping the small fish by
surprise. So does the market. The fish moves forward, its scales and fins,
above and below, showing very clearly in the picture of the wheat chart
for that period.

Since Nature does only one thing at a time, either eat or drink, the
white wine (which is “Tight” by the way) comes alter the fish and is not
within the fish. Thus, we got a reaction from November 8th to February

12

--- Page 14 ---
18th, 1941 which was just a gradual sagging; the trend was down, be-
cause “drink” means decline.

With February 18th, 1941 we began to form the roast, the bird and
to go right over to the end of the bird we find it came on September 12th,
1941 which included the neck, of course, which neck we had given in our
menu @ special name, i.e,, dessert or sweet stuff. But, to speak of the
roast or bird proper, we find its shape to be that of a bird and not at all
that of a fish. A fish is narrow and long stretched; a turkey has more the
shape ol a football, oblong, fat in the middle and narrow at the ends.

In school we learned that a bird has feet, a body, wings and a neck.
Our “Market-bird” for wheat during 1941 made its feet or legs from Feb-
ruary 17-18 which ran, so lo say, right into the body of the bird by April
4th, 1941, then was the body proper formed. Imagining the form of an
actual bird, we know that the legs actually disappear within the bird and
therefore, the body thal was being formed alter the legs were run through
had to be LOWER than the end part of the legs. The body extended from
March 31st (note that I allow for the rear end of the bird and I also allow
lor the feet to come into the bird and the picture for wheat also shows
this condition very clearly) over to May 2nd, 1941.

From May 2nd to May 20th we had the first wing of the bird, followed
by the second wing which consisted of a double movement: the first part

was down to May 3lst, and then the second part was the upmovement
to June 27th, 1941,

Now then, if we want to be real finnicky we even can say: where is
the heart? That heart is right on June 18-19th, 1941. This heart happened
to be the half-way point of the entire movement extending from February
17th to September 12th, 1941, which is, however, a coincident and not
a rule!

Just because the heart is located underneath the wings towards the
upper. part of the bedy, we cannot say that the small top of June 9th was
the end of the wing, but June 27th was it.

To explain everything fully and clearly I must go back once more
to the fish and describe its mouth as it was formed from October 25th to
November Ist and up to Nevember 18th, 1940. Note that the mouth was
wide open as if gasping for breath. Gasping for breath meant: I can go
no further; I have to react now, I have to drink some white wine. It,did.

The bird started in strong on February 18th, 1941. Itg end was
actually on June 27th, 1941. From that day on a sharp break with a "no
bid for Cottonseed Oil” came into CSO, Lard, Soybeans, but not much
did it affect wheat which only declined 4c, whereas the others declined
200 points and more on the "Red Wine’. In order to see such conditions
we absolutely should have charts for a couple of other commodities,
because, were it not for CSO, lard or beans, we would not have noticed
that the Red Wine went through our time cycle, although it was present.
We might have taken them for a “wing” of the bird. However, in the
special situation of wheat,.we were arriving at the end of the 9 inch
ellipse and we know that any bird has a neck which sits on top of the

13

--- Page 15 ---
body. The necks can be like that of a flamingo or of a swan, such as
beans had after their reaction on June 27th, 1940, or, it may be but a bird
with a short neck such as wheat had (of a goose or quail). So that from
the shape of the body (February 18th to June 27th, 1941) we can draw
conclusions about the shape and length of the neck, provided we have
some knowledge of ornithology. The size of the body is always in pro-
portion to the size of the neck.

The neck, which we shall call the sweet stuff of our dinner must have
been upward and not down because the neck implies that something is
stretching itself further on. Therefore, even though the 9 inch ellipse had
run its course, the move upward could not be over because a live bird
does not walk without a neck. It was rather sweet, that move, I mean.
It ended on August 3lst to. be accurate because | have to supply you
with champagne yet, which “pops—the cork of a champagne bottle
should jump up clear to the ceiling. We got that jump or “pop” from 5ep-
tember |st to September 12th, 1941. September 12th, 1941 ended every-
thing.

We had some cheese and crackers from September }2th via Septem-
ber 20th up to October 2nd, 1941. Then came a nut, a gap from October
2nd to October 3rd, 1941.

We got alter that into the p. and after October 17th we began to
form the tongue, which ended November 26th, 1941, in which we are
still at this moment.

When we go back a year, to April 22nd, 1940 and follow that specific
downcycle, you find the cheese and crackers as May Ist, 1940 and«May
10th, the almond on May 13-14th, 1940 and what a p. we got to May 18th,
1940. The s. was formed from May 20th to May 3ist, followed by the'long

stretched tongue downward to August 16th, 1940, the place where we
began our previous cycle just explained.

So goes the cycle, and every cycle and all cycles.

If we go back several years to 1924-1925, the wheat market made at
that time a dinner-table that is very exquisite: length was one year.
height was 100 cents, pattern exactly like the wheat picture Irom June
1940 to the present time.

In each animal cycle we even can find several smaller but complete
minor dinner-iahles hidden, provided we look very carefully for it, but
for practical purposes | would not advise to try for them because the
main movements are worth while only.

There is a difference also in the types of fish, but as a rule | found
them to be narrow and full of little “thorns” (tins). The fleet fish produce
long legged birds with long necks (see Soybeans). Any bird which, alter
having formed its legs (see wheat February 18th to April th, 1941) and
makes its entrails (wheat April 5th to May 2nd, 1941) but refused to con-
tinue making its regular body by going higher is a stunted bird, just
right to leave alone (see cocoa and pepper April to September 1941).
These are deformed birds who have little or no life to them and must be
avoided. For that reason when commodities make their tongue watch

14

--- Page 16 ---
the type of tongue, the type of soup, the type of fish and, accordingly
expect the bird, the neck and the rest. “Many are available, but few are
selected!"—meaning many commodities or stocks.

With this knowledge now in your possession it should be impossible
for you from now on to sell short at the bottom or to buy at the top of
dny move. It should provide you with the proper Patience to see each
animal formed and completed and to act at the right times.

Below is a drawing of the general pattern of the dinner table:

ot

chen? p
; §
oe “i
we A! |,
Lt Heath if $

As the J | a

oo
Get this pattern’s Picture thoroughly engraved into your mind!

This is the Egg of Columbus about Trading Stocks and Commodities
and if you can make plenty of money with it I Shall be glad. You need
no calculations of any kind, nothing but an ellipse for. intermediate
moves, @ daily high and lew chart of the commodities and the knowledge
of these patterns... And men break their heads to even get an inkling
of what could move markets, if it is not rain or snow ben .

The movements were explained on hand of the present, the nearest
cycle, which is still in actual memory. The farther back we take our cycles
for comparison, the more difficulty we have to even think of what has
happened unless back charts are available.

Most of the traders, when you tell them about what has happened
will tell you immediately: I don't care what has happened; what has that
to do with the present! Oh, how blind, how dumb they are; how little

15

--- Page 17 ---
de they know or even suspect that cycles repeat! They are happy in their
ignorance and like it. Therefore, it is a useless task trying to even speak
to them about cycles because they don’t know anything about them and,
as said in the first sentence where we began: they are not even willing
to hear anything.

We shall now go back one actual cycle and at the same time com-
pare it with the current one to see how they fit and also what their differ-
ent lengths are.

The immediate previous cycle began on April 8th, 1938 with the peak
of the neck of the bird. The cheese and crackers were formed via April
12th, 1938 up to April 19th, 1938. For the year 1938 | am using the Winni- |
peg wheat chart since I mislaid the Chicago chart, but the movements
of both were pretty well alike during that year, at least from the period
we are inspecting just now. (Use chart contained in Handbook)

The nut was made on April 25-26th, 1938 followed by a p. of 20¢ to
May 31st, 1938. Then came an 5s. 50% back rally to June 21st; then fel-
lowed another p, to July 27th, 1938 and then we made immediately there-
alter the tongue, And what 4 tongue that was! 20c was its length. [t
seemingly ended on Séptember 6th, 1938, but actually we must say no,
it ended on October Sth, 1938 only. Why? Because during that down:
move from July 27th to September Sth, 1938 there were no onions, no
radishes, no green onions nor celery sticks. They came between Septem-
ber Sth and October Sth, 1938.

The soup of that cycle lasted a whole month, from October Sth to
November 3rd or 8th, 1938. This meant one month, against the present
cycle taking for the soup just 10 days, August 16th-to 25th, 1940. Thus we
learn that we cannot use counts of days and say: this part of the cycle
takes 10 days and also 10 days in the next eycle, or it takes 99 days in
this cycle therefore it must take 30 days in the next cycle, too, We would
be all wrong. This shall be shown and explained on other’ parts of the
cycle as we go along.

_ The fish formation began on November 8th, 1938 and lasted until
May 4ist, 1939. This meant nearly 7 months against the fish of the present
cycle which lasted from August 25th to November }8th, 1940 or, not quite
3 months. Next comes the white wine which lasted from May 3ist to
August 9th, 1939. This white wine looks somewhat like being a tongue,
bul we had a fish before and not a p. and s. formation, so it could not be
a tongue (antipaste) formation, since the sequence of the dinner table is
always kept exactly. Nature does not make mistakes; we do, The low of
this white wine was lower than the fish itself which did not happen in the
present cycle, where the white wine was formed between November 18th
and February !7th, 1941. However, we also can see from the chart, that
the fish of November 8th, 1938 to May 3lst, 1939 was a flat eel with very
‘small undulations sidewise, the present one of August 25th to November

18th, 1940 was mounting upward.

We could not buy in that case (in the 1939 cycle) on June 23rd, 1939
unless it was for a small rally, because white wine has two sections or

16

--- Page 18 ---
two gulps, so to speak, which we can also see in the white wine from
November 18th, 1940 to February 18th, 194], In fact, each of these wines
had three gulps if you leok closely:

May 3st, 1938 to June 23rd, June 28th to July 25th and July 3lst to
August 9th, 1938, whereas the white wine of 1940-194] has the same as
ollows:

November 18th to December 17th, 1940, January 10th, 194] to Feb-
ruary Ist and February 6th to February 17th, 1941.

We never work with points (i.e. with the cents profit) but with forms
of the picture, Bear this cansfanily In your mind!

The feet of the bird were formed from August 9th to September | 4th,
1939. Note, that I did not say: till September 7th, 1939 for very good
reasons. The feel, as acid above have to be buried within the body of
the bird and are not sitting in the tail end. From other work, presented in
my “Handbook of Trend Determination” Septernber 7th could not be seen
but that 15th of September 1939 stuck out like a sore tooth.

The body proper of the bird was formed-between September 7, 1939
(now I have to use that date) over until either November 28th, 1939 or to
December 4th, 1939. We do not have to be too picky in that respect, be-
cause we know the wings of the bird and the neck have to come yet, just
the same as is was on May 2nd, 1941. The length of that body was also
longer in time than was the body of March 3lst to May 2nd, 1941,

But, note, that within one cycle the proportions remain very weil the
same, so that, a big long fish calls for a long bird, long wings, etc.

The first wing of the bird was from November 28th or December 4th,
1939 to December 19th, !939, the reaction or red wine lasted to February
Ist, 1940, The second wing last from February |st to February 23rd, 1940.
The heart which we located so well in the 194] cycle shows for February
14th, 1940, but this time it was not the halfway mark as it happened in
1941. The sweets or the actual neck of the bird had its beginning with
March 2nd, 1940 and had several kinks. Instead of making a swan’s neck
to 1.50 it wiggled back and forth, staying very strong though, until April
22nd, 1940. The champagne was not missing. It started with gap upward
on April 8th, 1940 and is actually a part of the neck or what we also
term “sweets”. This neck formation was in length very well in proportion
to the entire cycle respectively in fine proportion to the other parts of the
cycle just explained. The cheese and crackers were made from April 22nd
via May Ist to May 10th, 1940, followed by the immense p. from the nut
made on May 12th, 1940 and ending on May 18th, 1940. The s. and tongue
followed and we entered into a new cycle which is about to end here.
Se we are now at the same spot as we were in September 1938 and in
Tune 1940, making the radishes, pickles, green onions and the salamis.

The way wheat makes ils dinner table, serving complete meals at
all times, the same way do other commodities, also stocks. We have to
watch, of course, for stunted birds which refuse to make a nice long neck
such as pepper and cocoa did during the summer of 1941.

7

--- Page 19 ---
Using cycles in the way and manner explained will make you trade
in swings and will get you movements of many points without needing
to watch the market from moment to moment. Only when one major part
of a cycle is drawing to a close is it advisable to sit with the broker and,
to pass time waiting for a top or a bottom having in your mind your
dinner table, you have ample time to sort of sound out the sheep that sit
in there, who don't know whether we move up or down, but who are
people who have money to gamble with, to risk it without knowledge.
They talk smart and it “sounds” alright, but all their talk is a lot of p and
s for practical use. After you have changed your position avoid them like
these in olden times avoided lepers. .

These patterns repeat all the time. All we must have are charts to
pick the place where we are. Sometimes the fish are longer, at other
Himes a little shorter; sometimes the birds are bigger, taller or fatter, at
other times they are thin, short, even somewhat deformed just like men
are. This spring and summer we had a monster bird in Cottonseed Oil
and in Soybeans, whereas in Cocoa we had a goose or a duck, whose
neck was leaning back on its bedy. Soybeans had a neck of a flamingo. .
and butter one of a quail or a like bird with a very shor! neck, or, let me
call that formation a pelican (also visible in eggs, cocoa and hides).

The best period, therefore, for buying is during the time the tongue
is made and the best time for selling is alter the champagne has been
served and a nut.or two swallowed (swallow means make a gap down-
wards).

Ii, from now on, you dare not to buy around a bottom. but only get
all your pep together and buy on the top, it is your own ferult.

Know that a complete cycle from tongue to tongue can run irom one
to three years, that the diflerent forms of animals are very clearly visible.

As far as a general rule for buying and selling is concerned, we have
to use weakness to buy. and strength tosellon while thedirectionis still
the same. For example use weakness in the tongue formation to buy and
not when the fish is already in the making, During the resting period
between fish and bird you can buy again for the bird: when the bird is
completed, you can buy for the neck which is sometimes long, sometimes
short. If short, your profit chance is small, but you should not have to take
any losses even if it be short, whereas, if it turns out to become a flamingo
neck like visible in Soybeans in August 1941... what profits pile up then.
When almonds appear on the top short quickly until full discharge has
eecurred and know that there are several discharges in succession and
the hanging tongue to come thereafter.

GEORGE BAYER

P. ©. Box 1142
Carmel, California
