Relationship between Hebrew Letters
and Wheat Movements
by George Bayer
My old Hebrexv grammar, published in 1892 says on page two: “The Hebrew alphabet consists
of twent~Awo letters, which represented originally pictures of objects or their framework, whose names
began with these letters.
Ginzberg, in his “Legends of the Jews”, vol. 1, 5 says: “When God was about to create the world
by his word the twenty-two letters of the alphabet descended from the terrible and august CROWN of
God xvhereon they were engraved with a pen of flaming fire”.
Using these two thoughts together the one a plain statement of what the writer of
Hebrew
grammar had in mind as to die meaning of the alphabet mid the other, the religious thought, brought
forth via legends from the so-called “dark ages”, when certain men knew more than we ever shall know,
I concocted an explaintion of my oxMl as to flit rnearnng of the alphabet. It cannot be very well
explained how I gradually drifted towards these thoughts. Suffice to say, that the results should be
worth the reader’s careffil attention.
We are treating here a very difficult subject---one that includes many various thoughts and
ideas, which have to be digested. For better understanding, tests should be made on your own part with
various charts of stocks mid on charts of die various commodities covering several years.
The rules and explanations ~hich
follow may be at times a little disconnected anticipating at
times facts that are explained a little later, or I may be going back to sonic previous thought in order to
cover all possibilities for clearer understanding.
The main idea of this, and of all other articles that will follow from month to month is to impart
to the reader a clearer conception about the movements in the stock and xxiieat market their causes and
effects. None of my articles have anything to do with creed or race, neither with politics. All my work
is original and solely deduced through the studies of market movements, whereby all other sciences
have to be entered into facts taken out and incorForated into stock market science~
Let us inspect for a moment our ancient Hebrew alphabet as sho
on Page 5. We note it is not
the alphabet in current use to write in Hebrew.
It is the “old style” Hebrew alphabet. The letters
resemble more Egyptiai~ 1iierog1~phics than they do the present Hebrew alphabet. It should not surprise
us that this is so xvhen we consider for a moment that this ancient Hebrew script niust have been used at
a period that may be close to three or four thousand years ago. The ancients alphabet reveals its true
meaning. while the Modern Hebrew alphabet has its nwaning partly removaL
The only thing retained iii the present Hebrexv alphabet is the direction iii which the letters are
written, i.e. instead of writing forward as is done in all modem hmguages, the letters are written
backward. But to the keen eye, which gradually has become accustomed to look .fuiiaitsplittin&Aetail,
it shows that the originators of these writings covered up something of great importance.
We shall attempt to put the hidden meai~ings of the aimient Hebrew aiphabetlo practical use in
stock marker operations.
The Hebrexv alphabet starts with ‘haleph” or “alpha” in Greek and ends with “taw, the Greek
“omega”. For our purpose we have to turn the entire alphabet around and start with “taxV, ic. “omega”
aM proceed the other way so that afler “raw” follows “sin”, “rash
ai~d
qoph” until we reach “haleph”.
In the Scriptures it says:
I am the aiph and the omega, the beginning and the end’. It should be read: ‘I
am the taw going as far as haleph, from the beginning to the end. I am one complete cycle.
Here is the law, xxhich I am trying to prove in the present article:
2
ONE CYCLE such as we call IN THE STOCK MARKET a bull movement or a bear movement
IS
REPRESENTED
BY
THE
TWENTY~-TWO
LETTERS
OF
THE
ANCIENT
HEBREW
ALPHABET.
The letters are written backwards, from taw via sin up to haleph as stated above. We now
attempt to join the letters shown on pageS by writing them tentatively into a bull movement as well as
into a bear movement on hand of a daily high and low chart. We obtain two scales: let us call them
“ladders” because they have to incline upwards or downwards in conformity with the trend of a bull
movement respectively or a bear movement.
We can see them actually in motion hilly alive and moving on the wheat chart given on Pages 6
and 7.
A bear trend started for wheat in July 1937 and continued till March 1939.
The illustration shows the wheat performance from July 1937 to June 1938. The balance of the
chart from June 1938 to June 1939 will be brought in the June 20th, 1939 issue.
On the church steeple of a catholic church we find a cross. This is the Hebrew letter TavK or the
Greek letter Omega. It is “on top” of the church because that is where it belongs the same as the letter
taw belongs on top of a bull movement at which place the alphabet begins. When I say of beginning I
actually mean the end of the alphabet, because letters are written backwards so the beginning is at the
back, at the 22nd letter.
Let us trace the letters one by one on hand of the wheat chat and let us see how we fare in
discovering them, one by one, as they follow in accurate order of the alphabet during the entire
movement from July 6th, 1937 to May, 1939.
It must be remembered that occasionally a short movement creeps in, such as the one from
January 9th over to January
19th,
1938, which seemingly cannot be incorporated into the letter
belonging to this period. However, we have to consider that in modern writing we do not set each letter
singly but join one to the other. The same occasionally have been true with the ancient Hebrew writing.
In stock or wheat movements when a “new letter” is about to be written into the graph or daily high and
low chart we need a connection a “hyphen”. This idea anticipates somewhat things, which we need later
on and it is given here so as not to interrupt the drift of thought at the time we reach such cases.
Our first letter of the ancient Hebrew alphabet is “Taw”. In the market i.e. in our wheat chart of
1937, it represents nothing but the peak day of July 6th 1937: top of the market.
The second letter backwards is “sin”. It is expressed in the form of a W.
whose lines are all drawn heavy. Any stroke in a letter drawn heavy means: Any stroke in a
letter drawn heavy means:
big volume should occur at this time. “Sin’s” first stroke is from July 5th
down to July 10th, the up-stroke from July 10 to July 14th, the second down stroke from July 14th to
July 16th and the last up-stroke f#om July 16th to July 17th, 1937.
By this time the letter “sin” was completed. Now, when anyone “sins” according to religious
thoughts, he is apt to go to h... The wheat market, by that time, completed the letter “sin” and just look
at the chart aiid see what happened to it. It began to form the letter “resh”. The small ring in the letter
“resh” should mean a “gap”, i.e. a small space between the trading range of one day compared to the
trading range of the next day. In our actual wheat example it did not make the gap, however, July 20th,
1937 was a wicked day of decline.
The next letter in the alphabet is “qoth”.
It begins July 25th, makes the little head of the “qoph”
over to July 31st; and then followed the stroke down to August 9th. Volume was heavy during this
down stroke because the letter “qoph” this a heavy line down.
The next letter is “tsadhe”. Its movement begins August 12th and ends August 3 1st, 1937. Here
.7,
we have our first case of the “hyphen” mentioned before. It seems impossible to connect “qoph” with
“tsadhe” in one sequence; therefore we had a run-up August 10th and 11th, for two days so as to fit our
next letter “tsadhe” real nicely into the picture.
The letter “pe” is somewhat harder to find for the inexperienced eye, but just look at the play
between August 3 1st, September 8th, down to September 13th. Its shape is triangular, a sharp up and a
sharp down. It is not rectangular such as the ancient Hebrew “pe” is written. In case you had
commitments in wheat at that time you surely felt as if everything was rectangular. However, aside of
this, I must state that the letter “pe” as well as the letters “lamedh” and “gimel” which we will find later
do not have to have the very slant as written.
After “pe” comes “hajin”.
“Hajin’s~” form is an 0; the
only thing that is round in the market is a gap or a day when one single sale is made at one price. In my
estimation the letter “hajin” means end of one phase, beginning of a new phase.
The letter “hajin” represents the low point of September 13th, 1937, the point where “pe” ends,
and “szamekh” our next letter starts. The form of ‘szamekh” shows ups and downs: such movements we
had between September 13% and September 30w, on fairly light volume since the thin lines of the
“szamekh” indicate it.
Our next letter “nun” was a heart breaker; wheat broke 15c until it completed its engraving on
the tape. The volume during this decline representing the letter “nun” (nonel) was rather small. Most
traders expected the resumption of the bull movement since we had fallen back to levels, which
prevailed at end of March and early April 1937 in Winnipeg wheat prices. The thinness of the letter
strokes of “nun” shows that the 15c had to be lost on small volume. However very few knew that the
letter “mem” was following the letter “nun”. We note that this letter extends from October 14th to
November 8th, 1937. The end of “nun” was October 13th, 1937 and the two waves belonging to “mem”
where formed thus: low October 13th, first dome October 16th, next low October 19th, second dome
October 21st and October 26th, 1937.
Then followed the wicked stroke down on big volume to November 21st, and 26th, because the
letter shows heavy shading at the second top from vdwre the sheer drop was supposed to start. Close
inspection of the original Hebrew letter “mem” reveals that the bends are at the topside of it. This,
however,
4
2~
T Lwr:.rcb-.NC?r>Fi
~
L~TTE~
A
4
—I
(‘A
<N
•~~<
H
A
~ ./
~j
C
~1LN
<)~Z
t
I-.
A
S.. 4
Cl
—~
(34.37
CAFC.X~3 ~OS
4
~~1’
‘I.
JUNE .fl9
.11.1 .
~=•
--
7~m
does not bring any difficulty since we know the form of ~mem”.
Its “tail’~ is pointed down like
U)
-r
t
‘4-
—
-t~
3’-
U
5
the tail of Scorpio.
The next letter is “lamedh” or the Greek letter lamda. Its Hebrew form is like the
abbieviation demarking an angle of 45O~ This letter, if you had known about it at that time would have
been worth a mere 26c in wheat’s movement because we rose from 1.04 1/4 to 1.18 3/4 by November
17th, only to lose practically all of it again by Thanksgiving 1937. At that time wheat registered 1.06
1/2. Next we find the letter “kaph”. The length or duration of this letter was from November 25th, 1937
to January 9th, 1938. Its form is rather weird being similar to our modern letter Y. The tail end contrary
to what developed with the letter “mem” was not downward, but upward and is shown in the movement
of wheat from December 31st up to January 9th, 1938. Therefore, let us say: in the letter “kaph”, some
sort of a twist develops as itreaches beyond the second half of its form.
No explanation can be found for the cause of the movement that follows the letter “kaphi” other
than its being a “hyphen” to get over to our next letter 7jodh” I am speaking of the decline which
occurred between January 9th, 1938 and January 19th, 1938. In itself it was but a movement of 6 1/2c,
but since we are at analyzing we cannot omit such a swing.
January 19th, 1938 was the beginning of the letter “jodh”. Since its shape and form is an up and
down, and an up once more, the picture which had to develop in due time had to have a form of a
modem Z lying sidewise. We find that the first upstroke lasted to February 25th, the down stroke lasted
from February 25thi to March 22nd and the second upstroke till April 8th, 1938. We note in the letter
proper chat the first upstroke was to be on small volume. The other two strokes were to be on heavy
volume because these ancient Hebrews purposely made the two other strokes heavy and they knew the
reason. Close examination of Chicago wheat’s performance during this period will reveal that its action
was not the same but nearly so. Chicago rallied somewhat but we can not very easily decipher our letter
“jodh” therein. Wheat traders should keep daily high and low charts of Chicago, Winnipeg and even of
Liverpool, to find the letters.
Our next letter “teth”, is produced like an 0 with a dash in the middle. Looking at letter “teth”
from the distance, it appears to be an “eye” with a big pupil in the center, telling you “watch your step”.
The movement from April 8th, 1938 bowed down a bit to the 12th, and came up for the final run till
April 20th, 1938 and the “eye” was complete. As the most wicked letter of all the twentM-two I name
“cheth” which is our next letter. The Hebrew grammar spoken of in the beginning carries an explanation
about the letter “cheth” it says: cheth means, “house”. I ani sure that whenever we form our letter
“cheth” in the market a lot of people will go home discouraged. The entire movement is a slow but
steady decline one day after the other; every time we buy long during this period we get it “in the neck”
and only he who is short and just plays golf until the “house” is frill. i.e. complete, will have big profits.
“Cheth” began April 20th and ended May 31st, 1938.
The next letter “Zajin” began June 1st, 1938. “Zajin” is similar to ‘iodh”, the only difference is in
the line that issues in the center which is larger in ‘jodh” and a mere dot in “zajin”. These lines also
have certain meanings and I know their meaning. However, it would lead us too far off at this time to
delve into this. To satisfr our immediate desire to know what they mean, be it said that it has to do with
positions of the gaps or with days when sharp breakaway movements are due to begin. The up-stroke of
“zajin” leered to June 20th, 1938. The downstroke ended July 27th and the second upstroke ended
August 4th, 1938. This latter movement was not in proportion to the first up—stroke movement June 1st
to June 20th, 1938 but it is there nevertheless.
Next in the rhythm of letters is “waw”. Its underground meaning might just as well be: “wow”,
as we say to a horse when we want to stop it. The engraving of the letter
“waw” is similar to a dagger
and when we compare the movement fiom August 4th, 1938 down to September, 6th 1938, we have the
picture of a dagger or a saber, as good as anyone could make.
It was Mr. Hitler who made this saber during the war scare, rattling it during all that time.
Following “wow” we get the letter “he”. Let us pronounce this letter carefully and if repeated a
6
couple of times you get a word that sounds somewhat like: he-he-he, the c’s being short and their tone
high. Look at the performance of wheat between September 6th and September 28th493&amtyou will
recognize the “he-he” or “ha-ha” laughs wheat traders got after the “dagger drop” of August. The “ha-
ha” was worth a mere 1 2c, provided you knew your Hebrew alphabet backwards!
Next letter is “daleth”; in Greek its name is delta. Using either the Greek form in capital letter or
the Hebrew form, we find the period of October 5th to November 3rd covers this letter and its apex
occurred on October 21st.
The next letter is “gimel” which reminds me very much of people who have
the “gimmies’, give-me; a lot of the profits pocketed during the moves from July 5th, 1937 apparently
faded away during the long stretched sidewise jiggling of wheat prices during which time this letter was
formed. Instead of its picture being sharply down on small volume (entire letter “gimel” consists of two
thin strokes), a thing that was nearly impossible to believe because major bottoms would have been
broken through that were established back in 1936 and early 1937 on the adjusted wheat charts.
Therefore, “gimel” has to be laid sidewise and not upright when laying out the market performance for
this period.
The next letter is “beth”. It starts with a line sidewise a sort of a continuation of the sidewise
lying “gimel”. Where “gimel” ends is not easy to say. It might have been the December 12th top 1938
or else the January 4th top, 1939. The first stroke of letter “beth” extends to March 17th, the second
stroke ends May 10th, 1939.
The last letter of the alphabet is “haleph”. This letter singular to the letter “taw” represents but a
point. Around this point a complete change of feeling within the traders mind should occur. Crop
conditions and other things that apparently influent changes in the price of wheat should turn the tide
from a major decline that began July 6th, 1937, into a reversal of a major bull movement from this
point on.
However,
our next letter, the 23rd letter should not be “taw
“ followed by “sin”, but the
movement should be from “haleph” via “beth”, “gimel” and up with the only differentiation that the
formation of the si~~s may have to be used just in reverse. By this I mean that “beth” should not be
written as we have it with a side stroke as base, a line upward with a ring on top, but that the loop
should be at the base, a sharp up-move following and a sidewise movement around high levels for a
while so as to complete an inverted “beth”.
The rules given above should not only apply to wheat, but also to stocks and the various
commodities as well only remember they are moving in different cycle periods. For example, in stocks
we seem to move forward around the letter
“ szamekh”, coming to “hajin” at this period, having
produced “mem” and “nun” between January and April, 1938. In stocks the partition between “mem”
and “nun” is shown between March 18th and March 21st, 1939 and the first part of “nun” comprised
March 21st to March 22nd, the second part, March 22nd to 28th and the third part ended April 11th,
1939.
With this example I believe I have shown that some internal connection exists between the
ancient Hebrew letters and the movements of markets when the daily high and lowpritusarepiutkdin
graph form. Most people who trade stocks or wheat do not keep charts but they are so easy to keep and
take but a few minutes
each day. When we are to make the entries of the days performance it becomes
automatically a part of our daily routine.
There is no material available to check on the numbers used in ancient Hebrew. The numbers,
no, doubt, should also reveal certain secrets. When we temporarily branch off to our modern way of
writing and look at our Arabic numbers 1, 2, 3, etc. we immediately are able to connect them with the
rules explained above. They seem to represent “gaps”, because they have loops such as number 2, 3, 5,
6, 8, 9 and 0. Only she numbers
1, 4, and 7 fail to contain gaps and indicate only strong down
7
movements with heavy volume. We note that the numbers 2 and 9 have their “gaps” on top, while
numbers 5 and 6 have them on the bottom and numbers 3 and 8 have double gaps, the former using half
a side, the latter full circles, a sort of a “loop-the-loop”. Number 0 points to the flill circle of 360*
number 8 shows two sections of 180 each, number 3 form two sections of 90’ each. Using this line of
thought many interesting things may be found about numbers.
The modern scripts such as we use to day also the German script, the modernivlebrew, even the
Russian, writing seem to have been derived from this original Ancient Hebrew. At all times we have to
be aware of the fact that up to a few hundred years or so ago comparatively few people knew how to
read or write and it was a science by itself to know how to write. The few who did know were either
scientists or copyists.
The scientists’ aim was to solve the secrets of motion the same as we are trying to solve. The
secret has been solved in past ages I am sure of that and the Scriptures are prnof of it Theiiieroghvphics
of Egypt also contain these secrets, as we shall see later.
8
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Mrs. B. H. Seattle Washington
Would switch out of Alaska Juneau and substitute a rail stock.
Mr. J. N., L. I., N. Y.
Take a hedge in wheat against your cottonseed oil; hold both long.
Mr. N. P., Ontario.
That you failed to take on wheat when suggested does not imply thiat you sell your lard. It is
apparently getting ready for the move and should be held into fall.
Mr. R. T. Bronx N. Y.
CN should try to get back to 20 within a reasonable tinie and why not pick also MOPpfd? Yes,
trade in active stocks only and stay away from unlisted issues.
Mr. A., Temple Texas.
In any bull movement whenever indicated, I surely like to have commitments in pfd utilities;
there are not many to go around and theyjump in points and are much in a hurry.
Mrs. E. B. San Francisco Calif
Hides move similar to stocks most of the time; while it costs little to cany a contract, they are
dwamic movers and it is not what the broker wants now to start a commitment, it is what does he want
after it when a temporal drop of 100 points occurs? Be careful with hides and have plenty of margin
even though you are right in the trend.
SUGGESTIONS:
Especially during periods of hectic markets many traders avail themselves of Bayer’s WEEKLY
Close Range ANALYSIS of stocks and commodities.
Its price has been reduced to $12.50 for a three months subscription. Quite frequently, during
important runs, Bayer’s opinion may be desirable so as to know how he feels about thie situation from
week to week.
For 13 weekly issues, in some periods 14 issues, the cost amounts to but 1-8 point of a hundred
share lot or l-4c of a contract of wheat.
Send your order to: Box 1142. Carmel California.
VOLl
No 1
VALUABLE WORKS FOR YOUR LIBRARY
TIME FACTORS IN THE MARKETS” by GEORGE BAYER
A Book, that brings six distinctive
methods to discover the actual trend of stocks and
wheat, including the ellipse laws.
Price
$10.00
“THE FIVE-FOLD HOROSCOPE”
by GEORGE BAYER. Seven lessons in astrology, going far
beyond the scope of the average text book; gives method to analyse individual stocks from their proper
horoscopes and explains why the incorporation date of a company should not be used to determine
trend of the stock.
Price
$7.50
“BIBLE LESSONS” by GEORGE BAYER. Strictly astrological interpretations of the meanings,
beginning with Genesis 1,1 up to the Ark. Somewhat technical; intended for advanced students of
Astrology.
Price
$6.00
9
Preview of Markets
for June 1939
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
10
INTRODUCTORY
Many years of patient research concerning the movements of stocks and commodities have
passed. No field of science has been overlooked which would give even a mite of information in
finding laws upon which market movements could be based with any de~eeof safety.
In the course of time we shall touch upon subjects so foreign to the average trader, so remote
from the field of normal thought and activity that their relation to the subject could not even be
suspected. It shall be shown ~adually
that vast unexplored fields yielding laws upon laws have been
opened. These laws are not based upon what is commonly termed as astrology, but upon laws that are
taken exclusively from the Scriptures and allied works.
If you enjoy the reading of my articles, and benefit bvthe “Preview of Markets”, tell your
friends and traders about it.
GEORGE BAYER
Camiel, California, May 20, 1939.
A MONTHLY PUBLICATION IN THE INTEREST OF
STOCKS ANL) COMMODITY TRADERS
A 11 statements made in thus publication rn-c George Bayer’s personal opinion. They rn-c based
upon apparent recurring cycles of time and price. The forecasts given herein, while made with the
utmost care are not guaranteed.
Subscription rates:
Single Copies
3 months
6 months
1 year
$1.00
$2.75
$3.00
$9.50
ii
PREVIEW OF MARKETS FOR JUNE 1939.
WHAT STOCKS SHOULD DO.
The tide seems to be just about ready to turn. June should bring thie change. The beginning of
the month is not very favorable for stocks and as we enter the month we should decline and keep on
declining to the 6th. An attempt of a rally should come up to June 14th, however in the two days
following that date we can lose what little we made the 8 days previous. Between the 16th June, over to
the 15th, stagnancy should be noticeable together with small “summer” volume when evervone-Is4eady
to go to the World’s Fair at San Francisco.
These three days, June 16th, to June 19th, 1939 should represent the actual low levels for a long
time to come. A fairly sharp rally should begin June 19th or 20th, calling for slowly higher levels until
the end of the month. Small amount of trading activity possibly the smallestiwsftveral years, should be
witnessed during the month of June 1939.
There are no trading opportunities during June as far as I can judge, unless you carry a timid
short position over from May into the first part of June. However, the main work for traders during this
month should consist of planning and making commitments in all sorts of stocks on weakness whenever
weakness comes into the market. I do not believe the 120 level of the Dow Jones will be broken
anw~1ore; and if it is broken by a point or two it should not cause uneasiness~.
Some great surprises should be in the offing next month (July) to stock traders. I do suggest to
readers to accumulate a ffill line of stocks during the middle period of June and stick to it for good sized
profits.
WHAT WHEAT SHOULD DO.
It is a somewhat different condition when we talk about wheat. This commodity seems to have
been liquidated to a standstill during the last eight months. After long sidewise movements an important
move should begin. In that we had a major bear market in wheat from $1 .4iAowniaS6c_ it is not very
likely that we drop another .56c. Traders speak about excess crop conditions
Anyone who eveiy
studied “disappearance of cottonseed oil”, for example, for which commodity figures are released every
so often, will find that while during a certain month “disappearance of cottonseed oil” is normal, at
other months it is so astoundingly large that we gasp. The same way, the wheat surplus should get into
“disappearance” and nothing will be said anymore.
Wheat should start its upward movement ahead of stocks: in fact, as we enter the monthi of June,
1939, wheat should be moving up already and keep on moving up during the entire month with only
minor reversals. One of those is indicated for June 14th, the other for June 20th, and their duration
should each be but two days.
Therefore, wheat traders should have long lines as we enter the month of June, 1939. and still
have the same long lines as are leave it. However, as soon as we get into July, wheat should begin to
make a top.
WHAT COTTON SHOULD DO.
Cotton shows bullish from June 1st up to June 19th, but it is not in a position to retain that gain
as far as I can judge, so that after June 19tl~, we should lose nearly all we have gained on the upside by
the end of the month. June 30th, however, should prove to become an important bottoinforcnttnn imd z
brand new important upward movement should be inaugurated.
12
Winnipt~ Wbc~:ic
Juk 193?. Fune I ~
I’
I~I
I
I,
I..
Ii
ii
I.
I
~.
I
I!
‘
I
I.
~1
II
[I
.1
‘I
(
II;
Ii,
Ii
j.,.
H
C..)
‘II
ii
I;
II
.111
‘V
‘I’!I,
Ii
I.
I;
II
f-s
13
-g
I:
~
II
II
II
I
I’
Ii
I
dill
II
I>
ii i
I..
ii
liii
I
‘p
ii’
II’
II
‘71
A~I
ii
I:
II.
I’
I
Ii
‘I
K’
I:
‘-I
I.
Ii
VOLl
.1!
A A
No 2
14
Preview of Markets
for July, 1939
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
INTRODUCTORY
15
In previous years my works and articles could be obtained only in magazines, which were
completely disinterested in actual marker movements. Magazines whose editors are orthodox believers
in economics and “outlook”
as factors from which markets could be deducted, would never have
allowed my articles to reach their public.
In all articles the law of repeating cycles is stressed and explained as near as we can approach it.
Everything can be applied in a practical way to your own problems not only in market operations but
also in your own particular line ofbusiness.
Now that the reception of my first monthly “Preview” for June, 1939 has been satisfactory I
present to you, this second issue July 1939, and hope it also meets your complete satisfaction.
Each one of my readers is requested to help me get additional readers and subscribers by ceiling
his friends and acquaintances about this publication its purpose and aim. N{anyllraders would be glad to
get it; if they only knew such a work could be had. Your help in acquainting them will be greatly
appreciated.
You know my ability with cyclical work; let me see yours by helping get “Preview” into good
circulation.
Some old client when asked for his minion about ways to get “Preview” into quick circulation
suggested that I each reader to start a chain letter, such as was used successfully by some people in
Denver a few years ago, telling their friends and traders about my publication, but this, I consider, as
asking too much of the readers. It is merely mentioned to record this idea.
Camiel, California, June 20, 1939.
A MONTHLY PUBLICATION IN THE INTEREST OF
STOCKS AND COMMODITY TRADERS
A 11 statements made in this publication are George Bayer’s personal opinion. They are based
upon apparent recuiTing cycles of time and price. The forecasts given herein. while made with the
utmost care are not guaranteed.
Subscription rates:
Single Copies
$1.00
3 months
$2.75
6 months
$3.00
I year
$9.50
16
WHEN IT RAINS, IT POURS
From Pecos, Texas a road leads north through the desert for 84 miles to Carlsbad New Mexico.
After leaving this village there is no house, no farm for about 45 miles; all is desert in its true sense: the
land is level as far as the eye can see, barren, nothing grows, trees are an unknown quantity not even
cactii make their homes in these parts. There is some desert grass, even occasionally single petal pretty
flowers.
When we cut across from Carlsbad to El Paso Texas (see map page 17) we also pass through
desert land but the scenery is somewhat different. We find on this 150 mile stretch to start with washed
out gravel land, scrub bush, plenty of cacti; further west meadows of spinly grass and a few cows.
Soon after leaving White City, 20 miles west of Carlsbad, travelers have to pass through many
richer deep dried out streambeds over which there are no bridges. What interested me about these beds
were the huge signs at the approach, which announced: “Do not cross when it rains”. Imagine rain in the
desert!
When we went through it end of March, these strean~ beds were bone-dry so that we wondered
if there ever was really any water flowing in them. Some 40 miles beyond White city, the first house, a
gasoline station popped up. Inquiring about the signs yonder, the good man explained that at times
during the “rainy season” these streams are impassable; they fill up so fast and become very deep so
that a car would just disappear with the floods. However he explained further, usually they last but half
an hour or so and the stream is again dry as before.
What prompts me to write about this desert condition was an article in the papers last winter. It
dealt with a bar keeper who won the first prize in the sweepstake back in 1930. He had worked in
London and disappeared after cashing in his winnings. He was an Italian and probably went to
Mussolini land to enjoy the unexpected flood of money forever.
The story further to explain that this barkeeper came recently back to London, broke, crying to
get his oldjob back. It took 8 years to reduce the first prize winnings to zero.
Aside of the story being interesting, there is actually nothing unusual about it when we apply
cosmic laws as we shall presently see.
The man might just as well have been a stock or commodity trader who made a killing in the
market as happens at times. In our thoughts then, let us imagine constantly that it is a trader we are
thinking of as we go on into explanations of the phenomena.
Let us get back to the desert trip! We stopped several times to look over the vast barrel area; we
examined and ad- mired the single, faded red or pale yellow flower, half starving because they just can’t
exit on a constant diet of undisolved silicium oxide. They felt happy just the same in their surrounding.
They waved their pretty little heads in the soft desert wind as if
they wanted to say: Get going, and
don’t worry about us! We’ll get along all right!
Human life is part of Nature. The way we are born is the way we shall be. With “we” I don’t
mean John or Bob or Bill, I mean by “we”, Nature, all the flowers, whatever their name, the mosquito,
the cat, the tree, US steel, lard, wheat, anything that has a beginning. The snapshot of the birth moment
indicates the way of life. What has begun cannot be altered; it has to take its course.
The position of the planets at the time the “something” is born will indicate what is due for it; all
we need to know are the laws that govern “motion”. The Scriptures contain these laws covered over
with paint, with many coats of paint. The writers knew their laws so well that they could devote years
on the paint job and make no errors.
Planetary positions, as they gradually change, produce upheavals on our earth. They are also
the cause, which produce hills and dales up and down moves, deserts and strean~s forests and lakes,
male and female, and oceans. Normal planetary action begets normal persons normal stock movements,
normalcy all around. This is why the average is taken as a yardstick to judge. There are comparatively
17
few who measure above the average; there is a large quantity found below the average. This large
quantity of people, or of stocks which are found below the average might be compared to the large
deserts that exist on the various continents of our earth; the Arabian desert, the Sahara and Gobi deserts,
the vast desert land of Northern Australia, our own desert in the South-west.
When I chose the title for this article I thought of myself as being in the desert where, when it
rains it pours. Sometimes it is the same with people. To the barkeeper, a perfectly normal specimen of
human mankind working day after day on his job earning an honest living fell the lot and he made a
killing. However, since water in the desert does not stay for any length of time, winnings too, usually
do not stay very long as many of you have also already experienced. The old, average condition
prevails once more. Unless, UNLESS, something done immediately to protect it. We should be wise
and build a dam. The governments, long ago, have discovered this secret forthiegond ofall concenlet
They build big dan~s (Boulder Dam) big water reservoirs where they store up Rain i.e..
Money, or in
biblical, terms: they lock up Mr. Jupiter, which is the Planet that gives us water and money. This
dammed water is used when and if needed.
When we read back our first two paragraphs and make the proper substitutions, we obtain the
ideal normal man.
There is a nornrnl amount of money in the family; a normal amount of monexuts ~arned.Thereis
a little enjoyment here and there everything runs normally, but there is contentment and satisfaction just
the Same. At times, better conditions develop, things begin to look brighter, and the individuals begin
to say, “From now on things will be different, everything shapes up nicely”. However ordinarily these
conditions are but temporary. The main trend is always very slow even though it may be upwards.
At very large intervals individuals may get some heavy rains. Big money is then made fast
compared to the normal income. If such a streak arrives it can’t be slopped; it just pours. In such a case
the individual should pay more attention to erecting his dam so that the water doesn’t flow off too fast
as happened to the Barkeeper. But, as it is with human beings they spend it the way they make it. If it
comes fast they let it go fast and strange, their brain matter acts in harmony with Nature’s will.
Supposing a bull movement is in full swing. Traders are all long of stocks and accumulate paper
profits. How can they take care of these paper profits and turn them into cash in due time? There are
two ways:
1) To take profits on sharp run ups and keep the cash until another opportunity presentsitself
2) To protect the profits with stop loss orders a reasonable number of points below the then
prevailing price level. Such stop-loss orders, when once placed with the broker, should never be
removed or moved downward. In case the movement keeps on going further upward, these stop loss
orders should be gradually raised higher. As the trend changes and we go intaa downirenlor even inta
a bear market, these orders should not be taken out at the moment, as many are prone to do. Let them
have it!
Do not think the whole market is declining just because “they know” you have 200 shares stopped
below, and that after “they picked them up” the whole market turns face and runs into a new bull
marker 200 shares, even 1000 shares count too little when 1 1/2 or 2 million shares are traded in one
single day.
The bar-keeper, our winner, must have spent his money like a drunken sailor, as the saving
goes, until he had it all spent. Traders often act similarly. They buy stocks~ nnd as the marker goes up
they gain confidence buying more and more until, finally, they make the bigcommitnxentrightnear the
top hoping “rain” will never end. They are drunk with prosperity.
A stop loss order is left with the broker to buy or sell your stock at a time it reaches a fixed
price, which does not compare to the current momentary price at all. It may be from 3 to 10 points
below the current level, depending upon the type of the stock and upon visible chart resistance levels
18
that should not be broken.
For some reason or other Nature provides us with deserts, also with oceans along with this it
provides fertile land. In comparing human beings to fertile land we must take the rich not only in
money. but in health, in intelligence, in power, in friends etc.; the same as we have many kinds of soil
fitted to grow the various food products. Nature also has its oceans. But when looking for similarities
among human beings we do not fare so well unless we class among the group covering oceans the
multi-millionaires, the celebrities whose names are known all over the world such as Mahatma Gandhi,
Charley Chaplin and especially people who are used in caricatures. When once newsreel photographers
are after you consider yourself very close to becoming a celebrity, even though only a temporary one.
When the stock market moved in dizzy heights back in 1929 it also was a celebrity for a while.
Since our field of explanation in this article lies down around Carlsbad, New Mexico, we might
just as well tackle another phenomenon that I found at the big Caverns of Carlsbad. The beauty and size
of these caverns is unsurpassed though out the world. Magnificent is no word. They must be seen. Jim
White also must be seen. I looked at him and watched his every movement for about half an hour. He
was so interesting! Who is Jim White? A celebrity, from my point of view. He is but a little cowboy,
roaming the hills of the Guadelupe Mountains in the neighborhood of White City New Mexico. This
latter place was apparently named after him although the city can boast of but a restaurant and some
cabins for tourists, it is nevertheless called a city just to spite New York.
One day Jim White discovered a hole on the moi.mtain near the top, which led down into the
earth. He slid down with ropes to see what was in it. The next day he went down again and stayed three
days exploring it. This hole is now known as the Carlsbad Caverns a National
Monument. He told his
fellow cowboys all about what he had found its grandeur and vastness its fonnations buLthevjushcalleff
him the “crazy cavern” or something of the sort and took no further interest in his discoveiy. Jim went
to Carlsbad to spread the news about the Caverns. Then everyone said:
“That’s interesting”. “that’s
nice”, but that was all. He offered people to take them without cost to just show them what he found.
Nothing doing; they wouldn’t go on any fool’s errand. The Caverns were all his. Sometime later he
found another hole next to the big one out of which he saw, everv evening, millions of bats emerging to
feed. He investigated this new discovery. For thousands of years millions of bats must have lived there
because he found dung from 30 to 100 feet deep. Going back to Carlsbad he offered to show the people
the bats.
They did not care to see bats either. Caverns and bats were taboo. Finally he found a man, a
dealer in fertilizers, who wanted to “look”.
His business sense told him than bat manure may be
profitable to sell if obtained for nothing. Tim White, happy as a lark, had found his first visitor. After
inspection of the bat manure deposits the fertilizer man financed its excavations, using Tim as foreman
of the “mine”. Notwithstanding the fact that this fertilizer-man was around the Caverns
for years, he
refused to even think of interesting himself to look over the wonderful caverns. He never saw them.
19
/
~1
..~-
2~~~
Jw.—
r
El
>1’
¾;
A
4
rDr’’s
‘‘-
—.
HIGH
1 ~GUTS
• IA’ V-I Hi
~AI 1
srI’
-
I..
___
r,j__
r
r
____________________________
.1
7~L.
r -in
4.
1
I
A-
20
U.
)fl
-~
r.
2
______
~2’’
1;.
..
‘..
..w:
-
.1
-------4,
III
I
II
•1
_
ILL
__
__
•1•~-~••
L
_____
.
.!
-
.
A
2i
2
Z~
:..,..
—
•) N”
~
rr~r7.
—
MA~W~.C
AHVL.
-.
....
~
--__
I’
I
-.
-
Tr
___________
—
—
— —
I
.
.
—
v
C-
I
___
c-r
-_
—--¾-
~2i
I
’
____
-_
-
————--——--4—l-__
__
__
__
____________
I
____
I
Jim White never gave up frying to convince somebody whoe~ er he might turn out to be to just
come, please, look and see for yourself my beautiful caverns
Patience and insistence even though it
took him nearby 25 years to achieve it brought results. He found occasionally some tourists who dained
to look them over if it wouldn’t cost too much. But Jim was ieasonable
One day a felloxx v~ho as Jim
explained looked like a stockbroker, rich and wealthy, wanted to see the caverns On the way over the
22
hills Jim “made a touch” suggesting that he buys this land for a few hundred dollars, build some sort of
approach and show the caverns to the world at large. Nothing came of that. But, they were worth
something and Jim knew it. Finally the talk about these caverns came around to Washington and the
result was that today the Caverns are a National Monument with daily summer visitors amounting to
between 4 and 5 thousand people. Jim’s faith in his discovery was crowned with success.
He now runs the restaurant one thousand feet below the entrance near one of the large
underground halls so vast that the Capitol Building at Washington would fit nicely into it even allowing
space for the grounds. He sells a book containing his life story. Most visitors come up from the Caverns
with one of them, and 75c is not too much for what he has written in it. It’s raining in the desert for him
and it most assuredly will stay that way for him. He deserved it!
Let us turn this example into market operations, especially into commodity markets of the
present time! Commodities such as lard, cottonseed, oil, cocoa and sugar have been in the dumps for 2
1/2 years. They have been declining continuously. After darkness comes daylight. Patient accumulation
of commodities at this period, especially the ones mentioned should bring big profits. Lard at 16c at the
end of 1936 and 6 1/2c in June 1939 has lost all the “water” it contained. It has to “rain” again and swell
up the price of lard as well as of other commodities even of grains. When it does begin, the advance
will last some time. Anyone short of these commodities since early 1937 would have to cover now and
reverse, but who had that much nerve? This statement of holding positions for long times does not
imply that in between movements should be utterly ignored. Trading commitments should be in one
direction only when the board cannot be watched closely. In a bear market it is poor policy, as far is my
experience has shown to go long for rallies and leave the market unattended for several days; while
shorts may be covered on weakness temporarily, they should be put out again nwsharp rallies that never
fail to come into bear swings. The same way in a bull movement, short selling at such periods is often
disastrous. The procedure should be to sell out on fast run-ups when big volume occurs and buy back
on weakness. Should weakness not develop but important resistance points be crossed on the upside
long positions must be resumed immediately So as to remain in the trend. For this reason it is so
important to keep charts of the daily performance of the commodity one actually trades.
SPACE FILLERS....
In analyzing the statement clipped from a news paper of May 26th, 1939, from the heading “HIGH
LIGHTS”, I fried to get the drift of the story because Chrysler stock is one of my pets, and since this
special report was found next to the stock quotations it apparently was meant for traders to decide from
it whether stock should be held, sold or added to from here on. Three times I went over it; now you try
and see what you can make of it! See ill. 3, page 17
~‘HAT
CAN WE EXPECT THE REST OF THE YEAR?
Note: The forecast in chart form for stocks for wheat or for cotton for the second half of the year 1939,
giving you a broad view of the way the market should develop for the balance of the year is still
available and may be had for $12.50. The outcome of the next election, is pretty well discernible from
the stock forecast, at least Bayer thinks so. Would it help your business? If so, get them.
PREVIEW FOR JULY 1939.
WHAT STOCKS SHOULD DO:
‘7~1
The uninteresting market in stocks during June 1939 has about run its course. Such nanow movements
when not even a tape trader can catch two points in a week are usually the forerunners of big events.
The month of July 1939 should become one of the “star” months that are not witnessed very often. It is
hard to visualize that we should get a movement this month that has hardly any kink in it. Not since the
big move from July 12th, 1932, up to August 15th, 1932 did this happen. However things do repeat
once in a while and it is only up to us to find when this should occur again. There is actually nothing
more to be said except that a steady uninterrupted upward movement is indicattd -for stocks all of July. I
would have no shorts in such a market and if one intends to pyamid, mid-July would be a good time to
add to positions as far as my work indicates.
WHAT XVHEAT SHOULD DO:
Wheat should have completed its big movement the very day we enter into themouth of July. A period
of distribution is indicated for wheat during the month.
A reaction should start from the first of July;
that day should become the high day for the year, unless, after going though a reaction to the 6th of the
month, the ensuing rally brings the high on the 8th of the month. Remember, July 1st as well as July ‘7-
8th, are always important days for wheat. You could pick 4 out of 5 in recent years that brought
important turns of trend on those dates. A little bigger reaction should beginfronrluly 8th, lasting until
July 17-18, when small trading rallies that should miss the previous tops are indicated but end rather
suddenly. The month should close at or near the lows of the month. Crop news after the early July
government report, should be interpreted as slightly bearish by the public and readers who are wheat
growers would do well, as far as I can judge to dispose of their crop or take hedges against it when the
government report is ready to be released.
Therefore wheat should get into a frading market as we enter July with gradually lower levels in view.
WHAT COTTON SHOULD DO:
Cotton’s picture comes rather near to the wheat picture this month. While sharp run-up is indicated the
first four days of July the price approach to the June high would become a signal for a top, especially
so if the volume starts “to peter out” after the initial spurt to July 4th. A gradual sagging tendency for
the balance of the month is indicated at least till the 28th of July That day should find us around the
lows of the month with higher prices indicated for August, in fact new highs should be produced. July
17th or 18th would be a time to buy cotton back, and the rest of what you intend to carry would pick up
between July 25th and 28th on weakness. Cotton points more bullish than grains.
Other commodities. Due to the time it takes to analyze the many other commodities some
distance in advance, they are not given. Sixteen of them are treated in the weekly analysis; they all
move individually by themselves in their oxm cycles and must be individually judged.
24
HOW TO BUILD A TRADING PYRAMID
When markets are active and moving in one direction, upward in a major up move or downward
in a bear market, many traders are in doubt how to operate at such times. We want to get the best out
of trading without jeopardizing safety. We are talking about margin trading and not so much about
outright buying. A pyramid as we commonly understand it is one of those rock piles in the Egyptian
desert erected some 4000 years ago for a purpose apparently unknown to us.
In mathematics a pyramid is a polyeder limited by a polygon and of as many triangles as the
polygon has sides. When we construct a polygon Fic
ALBCDEF and take outside of the plane of the
polygon point S. From the corner points A, B, C, D, E F of the polygon we draw straight lines toward
the point S. and lay planes between each of two adjoining lines. Such construction produces a body,
called a pyramid.
We build a trading pyramid when operating in markets upon long stretched sidewise movements at
low levels. One of these long sidewise niovements illustrated in our wheat chart page 17 between
September 1938 and April 1939.
The base of the pyramid is the longest area in number of days that have to pass on the chart. As
we go higher, step by step towards the peak (S of our pyramid illustration), the top of the major
movement, the planes parallel to the base plane, become smaller and smaller in area, until we reach a
plane which in itself is but the end point, the top.
Let us assume the market is in a major uptrend. Most of the buying should be done at or near the
lowest plane at the base. Stocks and commodities are prone to make big bases before they start a bull
move. Look at wheat from September 1938 to April 1939, Sugar. from Oct. 1938 to March 1939,
Cocoa, this Spring, Silk, last summer and fall; Stocks, June and July 1932, also from October 1932 to
April 1933, etc. As we come into higher regions a pNtamid can be started, additional purchases can be
made at higher levels of course but in lesser quantities. As markets move still higher we still add to
commitments on weakness when such weakness develops, but reducing the amount once more and so
on up till we near the peak.
As an illustration we take U.S. Steel such as it performed during the last few years.
U.S. Steel around 40, normally forms big bases (except in extreme bear cycles). Thus a pyramid
can be started whenever U. S. Steel reaches around the 40 level. Let us say a trader can buy 500 shares
of stock around this level, intending to pyramid as the time becomes propitious. Charts of the daily
performance of steel for several years back are necessary to judge right. Whenever an important level is
crossed, the stock can be pyramided on weakness following such crossing; let U.S. Steel cross 52 1/2,
an important resistance point. On weakuess after such crossing this trader should add 300 shares more
67 1/2 is another important point. When this level is crossed some more stock should be bought with
parts of the accrued profits say 200 shares. When the 90 level is crossed, one more attempt may be
made to add say 100 shares. But, when we know that the average top level in normal movements for
steel is a little above 100 and not 262, we cannot possibly add more without endangering our pyramid.
The higher we get in price, the nearer we get to the top of the pyramid and the bigger the reactions that
ensue.
Pyramids should be made in sizable distances and not a point or two apart. It would be wrong to buy
100 shares of Steel say at 40, 100 at 41, 100 at 42, etc. It would be worse yet to buy U.S. Steel when a
big base has been made the following way: Say the base point is around 40 and one would enter orders,
100 at 40, 100 at 39, 100 at 38, etc. He may get none whatever but will be glad to pay 52 for the entire
intended lot.
When the market is a buy it is a buy “at the market”, and not at a stipulated price, especially
when “chiselers” see a stock sell at 40 1/8 for two hours on big volume and they dare to enter an order
25
at 40 or even at 39 7/8. Usually, if it does go there under conditions explained above then the stock is a
sale and not even a buy.
As we approach the end of an upward move, the selling period must be carefully analyzed. U.S.
Steel crossing 100 in our assumed example would start the beginning ofunloadingtopeople
who begin
to buy at high levels, figuring that the stock now goes to 200. The first amount bought, i.e. the 500 at
the low base could be dropped first, and as we go higher, every 4 or 5 points the next lowest bought lot
should be sold out until nothing is left from the buying period. Immediately thereafter, without much
delay short selling should begin. This matter of short selling has a lot of traders baffled. They don’t dare
to sell short. However, we realize that after a rise there must be a decline again. Nature changes the
minds of people from “wanting” into “not wanting” stocks. Short selling is but anticipating lower levels.
Because an immense lot of people see only roses blooming, they invariably buy with their accumulated
funds, stocks at high levels. hi fact they act so anxious to get stuck that they buy at “your price”. Let
theme buy stocks from you at or near the top even though you have to go out and boiTow stock,
especially so when you are fairly sure in yourjudgment that prices have to recede-and that the big bulls
who usually buy a stock like U.S. Steel above 100 get discouraged later on and you buy that stock at 30
to 50% rebate or even less from them and turn it over to the man you borrowed it from. Those who loan
stocks are usually big investment trusts or estates who hold stocks through bull and bear markets for
dividends or for some other reason. Whoever lends the stock does not matter, but what matters is that
you sell it to those who want stocks at high levels without even having these stocks yourself and when
their price has receded sufficiently you buy them back from the discouraged bulls at “your price”,
turning them back to the owner, The difference in price is your profit.
After all long stocks are disposed, a pyramid should be started for the decline; so that you
should sell short in certain definite ways that usually turn out profitable.
The biggest lot in the original short sale should be sold first. Say you sell 500 U.S. Steel around
110. Sell the next lot of 300 shares short about 10 points later, whether it is 10 points above the original
sale or 10 points below it. The next lot of 200 shares another 10 points beyond this above or below, so
that the fill short line is out within about 30 points. As we reach the lows of a decline again we cover
these shorts and buy long in the same manner as we proceeded on the top, only reversing the action.
Intermediate swing traders can do the very same way when using the swings that are about the
size of an ellipse (see my work “Time Factors”), however more discrimination has to be applied
pertaining to gaps and it is a good nile in this type of trading to make the various purchases or short
sales whenever a gap is made. The proportionate buying and selling should be maintained.
A smaller trader can avail himself of the same mode of trading when using an aniount of 50, 30,
20, 10 shares, or other proportionate amounts to suit his find.
Such procedure precludes first of all “over trading”, the worst weakness traders have. Secondly,
it precludes “plunging”, or what I call “being carried away with enthusiasm”. It is folly to suddenly buy
a 500 share lot of stock because you overheard an “insider” talk about this and that stock going to 130
for sure
Giving ear to all sorts of talk does influence traders tremendously. One case I heard of
myself when a trader explained to me that he bought a certain stock at highAeveJKhecaus~ biRuncleThal
a friend whose 2nd cousin was a runner or doorman at a big investment house aiid that fellow told this
second cousin that he heard of some big man buying this stock at current levels
So he bought that
stock too.
Pvramiding requires the biggest risk at the beginning of a cycle, either close to an important low
or close to an important peak. This is when the biggest commitment must be risked. All others do not
entail any risk whatever, as far as I can discern unless the procedure is undertakewin a different way as
explained above. After the first commitment you play practically with the profits. It takes patience and
time, but big profits can be made that way.
Of course, there are traders whose blood runs different. They are in the market for the
26
excitement they derive from it. They should adopt these rules for the intermediate swings and should
fare well.
At the present period a pyramid may be started in stocks.
MAKING GRAPHS FROM STOCKS AND COMMODITIES
A graph or chart of a stock or a commodity should be neatly kept and be legible
The most
suitable paper is the K.&E. paper, such as is used in the forecast tracing. I marked off a square in the
stock forcast, see page 17. This square is the unit of phoning. For low and medium priced stocks selling
up to about 12 dollars, one such square should represent $50 or 1/2 point in its movement (fluctuation).
All other stocks, should be plotted oiie fill poiiit or dollar to the square, makiiig the small hues iii
between the quarter points and leaving place to plot also the eights within these small lines.
For commodities we have to make special adjustments so as to keep the price structure in
certain proportions to lay ellipses.
For wheat and all other grains, whether Chicago or Winnipeg, use Ic for one square or 1/4c for
each small thin line.
Therefore, each square represents fluctuation of $50.00 per contract unit.
Cotton takes 10 points per square in the chart; Hides 12 1/2 points; Cottonseed oil 8 1/3 points
per square, so that every third square you have an even number. Copper 9 points; Butter 1 /4c; Coffee 15
points per $50 fluctuation; Eggs 3/8c per square; Cocoa 17 points; Lard 10 points; Rubber 22 points. In
Silk 4 points represents a $50 movement; Sugar 4 1/2 points (for simplicity take 4 points): Wool tops,
one square for a single cents movement. Wool tops are always quoted in tenths of a cent thus 10/iOc is
one square.
The charts suggested are dated on top and bottoms margin so that it is easy to plntihe daiiyligh
and low prices on the right line. Each day of the year is contained, even the 29th of February in case we
strike a leap year. It necessitates the omission of Sundays and holidays which spaces simply remain
vacant.
Readers inexperienced in drawing should first make their entries with pencil by plotting the high
and the low price of the day with a dot and then connecting these dots with a line. Later on use a hard
pen to draw the lines.
Commodities must be plotted in one option as long as possible, usually until about one month
before expiration of the option. As we get nearer to the expiration date buying by actual consumers
comes in which apparently throws the price structure out of its equilibrium, as inspection of any chart
will show that is kept up to the last day an option is traded. Therefore we have to “switch out” of an
option and go into a later one usually one that has still some six months to run. From September option,
which should be abandoned for plotting purposes about mid-August, switch into March or May options.
The switching must take care of the price differential that exists between the plotted option and the one
that is to be plotted from that time. On the day you change an option, you proceed as follows (as
example use August 15th). Supposing September Wheat is selling between 81 1/2 and 82 1/4 while on
the same day May wheat of the year following is traded between 76 3/8 and 77 1/2, then you make a
new scale by calling the old 81-82c level from now on 76-77c level and keep on plotting the new option
as ifnothing ever had happened, ignoring completely the values of the September option.
VOLl
No 3
27
Preview of Markets
for August, 1939
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
28
INTRODUCTORY
There are eras in existence in our world. One of them was in existence when the Bible, the
greatest astrological work was written At that time some people kiiew all the laws goveniing you and
me, the markets and the life of anything, when they had to be boni, when they had to die. There were no
“shioulds nor woulds”. They knew also that according to their laws the knowledge of these laws was to
disappear again and some makeshift ideas were to take their place. This was the reason why they wrote
the Bible. They wrote it in words that dared thousands or serious students to solve the meaning. In one
of the Midrashi it says: “If after five years of work you have not made any great progress with your
studies, give up”. I came across this passage just about five years after I had begun to really and truly
devote practically all my time towards the study of Sacred Literature. This was around June 1st, 1939.
At that time I asked myself candidly: How far did the five years of study bring you? The answer was: A
few thousand pages of notes were produced, some five thousand
index cards were marked with
explanations as to what the individual words “might mean”. Every corner and nook of the house has
Bibles or other related books lying around. Whenever I got stuck in one book, I started all over with
another, until by June 28, 1939 I was so thoroughly disgusted with the books that I just stared into
space, saving: “George, what a fool you were, trying to solve something that cannot be solved.” But,
similar expressioiis I had used oii myself already several times.
Around 6:30 p.m. on June 29th, 1939, right after dinner, I decided to start for the 101st or 125th
time, whichever time it might have been, just once more, the very last time, with Genesis 1, I and see if
I could not find a cue as to time.. I jumped quickly over to the generations of Adam, because in them, I
knew, had to be the timing. Once, I would know what is a year, the “beginning” was made.
I drew on a sheet the ages of the various men quoted and by 6:45 p.m. JUNE 29th, 1939
-
I
FOLTND THE TIMING, pure and simple, so astonishingly true, that I had to stop for ten minutes to get
over the spell that gripped me right there and theii.
This point is the beginning of a NEW ERA. You shall see that it is so. Since that moment I have just
taken enough time to rest. I have reached already Jacob as he sleeps under the heavenly ladder on the
earth. This ladder reached to heaven (Genesis 28).
Every word up to that point is absolutely clear to me as to its meaning and what follows will be
clear to me within the next two months at the outside. I have, of course, subjected certain parts to tests
already and, boys, it is grand, the Grandest thing that could be found. We all shall benefit of it real
soon, so have just a little more patience!
Here are a few high lights of the find:
1. The Bible is the book explaining the effects of planets.
2. The effect can never be obtained with what is commonly known as astrology.
3. The names quoted in the Bible can be angles or points of conjunctions.
4. The meaning can only be discovered by discarding completely everything that
is shown in astrology books, excepting the names of the planets.
~.
He who is well versed in ordinary astrology mid who begins to devote his fill time, some 14
hours a day. for filly five years may if he is fortunate, his the spot to know: what is ONE YEAR that is
always quoted in the Bible. Then he can start to build the house which does not take long to do after
that, because by that time he has gone through the Bible a hundred times “a-hunting”.
6. The hieroglyphics of Egypt, the Mohaiiimedan Koran, the Jewish Scriptures, the Christian
Scriptures are all one and the same: works that explain the effects of planets to later generations.
‘7. Every word of the Bible is absolutely true and in its right place; it contains not one unnecessary
29
word.
George Bayer
Carmel California, July 20, 1939.
Special Note: for the time being, until I tell you, the forecasts contained in “Previews” are made up
with my original methods as used before this discovery.
GB
A MONTHLY PUBLICATION IN THE INTEREST OF
STOCKS AND COMMODITY TRADERS
All
statements made in this publication are George Bayer’s personal opinion. They are based upon
apparent recurring cycles of time and price. The forecasts given herein, while made with the utniost
care are not guaranteed.
Subscription rates:
Single Copies
3 months
6 months
1 year
$1.00
$2.75
$3.00
$9.50
SUGGESTIONS: Especially during periods of hectic markets many traders avail themselves of
Bayer’s WEEKLY Close Range ANALYSIS of stocks and commodities.
Its price has been reduced to $12.50 for a three months subscription. Quite frequently, during
important runs, Bayer’s opinion maybe desirable so as to know how he feehatnutThesihiatinwfrom
week to week.
For 13 weekly issues, in some periods 14 issues, the cost amounts to but 1/8 point of a hundred
share lot or l/4c of contract of wheat.
Send Order to: Box 1142, Carmel, California.
HOW CAN A TRADER STAY IN BUSINESS
VALUABLE WORKS FOR YOUR LIBRARY
TIME FACTORS IN THE MARKETS” by GEORGE BAYER.
A Book, that brings six distinctive
iiiethods to discover the actual trend of stocks and wheat, including the ellipse laws.
Price
$10.00
“THE FIVE-FOLD HOROSCOPE”
by GEORGE BAYER. Seven lessons in astrology, going far
beyond the scope of thie average text book; gives method to analyse individual stocLs from Ihicir proper
horoscopes and explains why the incorporation date of a company should not be used to determine
trend of the stock.
Price
$7.50
“BIBLE LESSONS” by GEORGE BAYER. Strictly astrological interpretations of the meanings,
beginning with Genesis 1,1 up to the Ark. Somewhat technical; intended for advanced students of
Astrology.
Price
$6.00
30
I recall that a medium sized delicatessen store on Broadway in Long Island City, N. Y.,
changed hands several times. The price involved in the transaction was each time between $7500.00
and $8,500.00. The stock of goods went with the deal, so did the five year lease that covered the “right”
to be at that place under a stipulated rental which was about $100.00 per month. The new buyer each
time had to put up in cash between $3,000.00 and $3,500.00, the balance in notes at so much a month
until filly paid.
The little stationery store next to it also changed hands twice in three years. The change
involved each time $3,000.00. The cash needed to buy that place amounted to $1000.00 and the balance
to be paid monthly until paid in fill.
Now, what did these people buy who acquired these stores? They bought a perniit to operate a
store, from the owner of the property for which they pay monthly $100.00, business or no business.
They sought the location of the place, a fairly thickly populated section where three other delicatessen
stores are within two blocks and four stationery stores are offering the same ware. They bought the
“unknown quantity,” the customers who are expected to buy their goods. They also bought the troubles
that were left behind by the former owners, such as dissatisfied customers wear and tear of fixtures by
the former owner, they bought expenses of remodeling, redecorating, renewing the store to suit their
own taste which, as I understood cost the delicatessen men some $1,500.00 with-in three weeks. They
bought the merchandise as is, salable and unsalable, some that might have beeiustockeltbrceycarsagn
by some other owner who bought it with the idea of selling it again, but since it turned out to be
merchandise that may sell at some other place, it seems it could be sold in this place.
The new owner had to buy additional goods from wholesalers to stock up and replenish the
store. Thus, when we add up the expense a fellow incurs to get a store of the kind described
into
operation, it amounts in round figures to about $5,000.00 and a debt to start with of about another
$5,000.00. The first $5,000.00 he must have in cash else he can’t start die store: the second $5,000.00
must come out of profits.
Eveiybody knows that the average delicatessen or grocery store works with a brut profit of 250o.
After deducting rent expenses light, helps and miscellaneous, such as paper bags, he may clear 10% net,
out of which his salary and living costs must come forth, his payments on the mortgage.phrttlieinterest
and other incidentals not mentioned of which
there are quite a few, small in single items but
aggregating as a whole.
He opens the store at 7 am. and closes at midnight. Time is no object. During hours when
customers are scarce, he might go to his home and take a nap to be freshenedujvfonthiexestnfthedaw
During all these years that I lived in that neighborhood it very seldom happened that I passed that store
and did not see these store-keepers in their stores whatever hour it might have been; they are constantly
on the job.
Why are these people so much at the job? First to make money, secondly to protect the money,
which they have invested in the store. The result of such work is a fairly steady income, which depends
of course, upon the neighborhood and upon the individuals that patronize this store and not one of the
three stores nearby. Courtesy to anyone who buys something, however small the purchase might be, is
of prime importance. Price, as low as consistent with quality, is another important factor. If the house
wife can get a package of washing soda a block away for 1 ic she surely is not going to pay 12c to that
other store because of the good looks of the man. She wants to save that lc and rightly so. Whether the
man bought it per case for bc or for 9c or for 3c does not interest her. She is out to get a certain brand
at the lowest possible price. Here at Carmel I noticed our own grocer charging for a can of coffee 33c
and some time ago made a special of same, for 30c, while in all oilier stores the price is 29c. Upon
inquiry he told me he cannot buy as much as the big chain stores and consequently has to pay more for
it aiid thus cannot afford to sell it cheaper; result, the coffee stays on the shelt and people go
somewhere else to buy their coffee and many other things that otherwise would have been bought from
31
him.
The next factor a storekeeper has to watch is cleanliness, the display of goods to attract the eye
of the purchaser towards his merchandise. This is an expense that costs work and material lie also has to
be a good conversationalist, besides being a good listener to all sorts of gabbing and gossiping about
events in the neighborhood. He must know who wants to hear news and who doesn’t. He must know
about children and listen carefillv when mothers explain to him about the vitamins A and B and C and
D.
He lives in a world of his own as small as it may be, covering but 1 1/2 or 2 city blocks. He has
to consider himself being the Sun and the customers rotate around his store, affecting him sometimes
and not affecting hiini at oilier times (not buying).
~45 the time comes around that he doesn’t care for the store any more, which includes location,
customers amount of sales done, profits or losses accumulated he takes an agent who offers the place to
someone else and another “king” enters to rule the store to take profit and loss and all that goes with it.
Let us apply the thoughts and laws contained in the above case and apply them to market traders.
The greatest fallacy in a market trader is his idea to get rich quick. As it is with a grocery man
who has to open once his first store, so a trader has to open once an account. The grocery man however,
opens hiis store or buys hiis store wiui die idea to niake a living and nornial profits, whiile a trader who
opens his account usually does so on account of
1. Hearing from other people how much profits they made in this or that stock, aiid he tries to do
the same.
2. Making some side-money apart from the regular business.
3. Going into business of trading the same as a man goes into the grocery business.
4. Some inheritance arrived which is of abnormal size compared to what he is used-to.
i. The gambling spirit gets a hiold of die nian.
On item No. 1 we just have to frequent brokers offices and listen for five minutes to traders.
You hear all about their profits but you never hear a sound about their losses. They take for granted that
you are not interested in losses else you would not be at that place where apparently “all is profits”. He
may tell jokes and at the very same time swear inwardly about his stock having gone nffannthier quarter
just now on the tape and he will not tell you that his paper loss is already seven points; he will not even
tell which stocks he is “hooked” with, but persistently explain how lie did make those two points a year
ago and how hie outwitted the sniart Alecks, althioughi after hie took his profit --those two points-- fiat
stock went another 12 points but he will say: “You never get poor taking a profit
About item No. 2: A store that takes in a sideline admits without stating so that his own income
is not enough and has to take recourse to some outside item to save the business. People who bade
stocks or commodities as a sideline are not trying for pin money although they may tell you so. They
are trying for bigger money than their business brings in. However, trading stocks or commodities is
different than selling a pound of meat or a can of sardines. hi the latter case you are satisfied with a 2c
profit, but in stocks or coniniodities one tick on the tape niay represent die whole dais receipts of the
store. When one is used to measuring in cents he is unable to measure in dollars, but strange as it may
sound, he who can figure in dollars can do so in cents because it is easy to n~ dowwthcAaddcr but veiy
difficult to go up on it. hi this instance I am not referring to the traders who are trying for swings, but of
traders who try to catch a point here on the upside and another point the day after.
Item No. 3: The trader who opens an account the same way as a Grocer buys a store
This man usually takes an amount of say between $3000.00 to $10,000.00. He mighthnvc been
watchiing niarkets for quite some tinie, so as to get acquainted widi his nierchiandise. He knows that his
merchandise is for selling purposes. Before he sells he has to buy (unless it is a short sale). In order to
sell with a profit he has to buy lower thasi where he sells it. He knows that grocers also have
merchandise that is unsalable for a long time because nobody wants it. When a stock does not act good
32
or does not move within a reasonable time with the others lie knows there is something wrong with it,
and if something is wrong and the grocer does not know die reason, lie will tiy to eliminate that article
as fast as lie can, even at a loss. The sanie a trader should do. A trader of that type tries to earn as niuchi
as he can leam about his “goods.” He will try to detect what makes these up and down moves. He soon
will realize that the secret is not buried in the corporation whose stock he trades but somewheit el-sm He
knows that the number of shares off a corporation is usually the same, whether they sell for $8.00 or
$108.00. Thie goods made by the corporation also remain die same; as a rule, die factories and real
estate properties change very little too. Just the same, at one period the stock is worth 8 and at some
other period 108. He also knows pretty soon that a stock is not always cheap because it sells at 8 and it
is not always high priced if it sells at 108. All diese values are relative, belonging to the niomentary
time cycle.
Item No.4:
Inheritance or some other source of finds that seek profitable employment, hi this
instance the unexpected find is a cause of great worry. As a rule, the heir never thinks of How can I
make sure it does not flow away; what he thinks is: How can I double, treble, quadruple this money in a
month or two months? I am speaking, in this case of people who have had a pretty tough struggling all
along, hi thieir hun’v and rush they usually buy a “white elephant” whether in stocks or in real estate or
in some other enterprise. They hack experience to hiandle money. They can handle $30 and $35 a week
marvelously, but anything beyond $1000.00 seems to go into the wrong channels for hack of practical
knowledge. This reminds me of exceptions. The little corporal, Hitler, who commanded a handful of
soldiers in the World War, is now able to handle 80 millions of Germans; so did Napoleon with nearly
all of Europe.
Money acquired step by step, climbing gradually is the best type. Something sudden is martial
(depending upon the planet Mars).
hi New York we can see this phienomenon with the Jewishi
population. The poorest type hives on the lower East Side; when conditions become better they move to
the Bronx; when still better, they shift to Washington Heights, hater on down to Riverside Drive and
finally they land at Park Avenue. You won’t find them moving from the Lower East Side straight over
to Park Avenue. If thiey do, they are out of place.
Item No. 5:
The outright gamblers. There is a trait in human beings, which we may term as
incurable; gambling. Not everybody is subject to this weakness. Some drink, some loaf, others have
other vices and some gamble. Poker, dice, horses and stock market, etc. are used by then They figure,
in that the market can only go two ways, either up or down, they hiave a 50-50 chiance to win. But, as
tests have proved, it is not so. The chances to be right “blindly” can occur only when the main rule of
speculation is observed; buy when evervbody thinks we can’t go up, and sell v~hen everybody believes
we are entering a sustained period of prosperity and that idea goes as far as being enlarged in
newspaper headlines. Strange as it may sound these people only get the idea of a sustained period of
prosperity when we have been wading through prosperity for quite some time, which they did not even
realize.
A ganibler goes to the Board Room in die morning, sees a stock strong. it looks good to hiini,
and he jumps in. Not with a hundred shares is he satisfied: he takes right away all his account can stand.
Quite often he gets away with “murder” and makes three points that day and calls it “luck” which it
actually is. The conservative trader may have bought that stock three months ago and have been sitting
patiently with it to see it move up three points and, because he is conservative, he gets out ~ten
the
ganThher jumps in who takes it over. Both may make three points; one in thee months, the otlieriwnne
day. However, he who made it in three months is much better off as far as I can judge than the one who
niakes it over night. The foinier did honest work and earned a nornial profit xvhile die latter just
gambled.
At periods it happens that niarkets run against you. The normal trader knows it. He is prepared
for it. He does not over bade and has enough reserves to keep him above water so that he does not have
.33
to sell. Unless the situation changes completely, he will not have to take a loss. It is quite different with
the trader who takes too much of risk. Supposing we hook back to the wheat situation of 1924, when
wheat rose fioni $1.00 to $2.08 in one year. The fluctuations were sizable. A rise of 25 points; was
followed by a drop of 20c: and a renewed rise of 30c: followed by a drop of 25c; within a month or six
weeks period. Supposing you felt the main bend was upward in wheat at that time and you bought as
the bend started upward, nevertheless you had to have substantial margin to withstand shocks of 20-
25c. At the present period, when wheat fluctuates in a bc range and good many got themselves into
trouble because first of all they would not buy at or near a how but persistently waited until a lOc up
move had occuned and then bought wheat for the next bc up move. Such an up move should still
develop, because wheat is not worth 60c nornially but its nornial price is around $1.00. So where can a
fellow be wrong when he buys wheat between 50 and SOc if within a reasonable time it can be sold for
close to a dollar? But, a contract of wheat cannot be handled with $500.00 margin in such a case. He
may have to use $1,000.00 for it to make sure he is within the safety zone. A grocer uses $8000.00 to
buy a store and has to wait for customers. A trader who buys eight contracts of wheat in the 65-70 level
where it was hanging around for eight months (Chicago) from October 1938 to April 1939 might have
used $8000.00.
Each
hc movenient on eight contracts aniounts to $400.00 A bc niovenient would represent
$4000.00 therefore, or a capital appreciation of 50 ~o. How long do you think it would take the grocer
to make $4000.00 with his $8000.00 store investment? How many hours does he have to spend in the
store, how many customers does he have to wait on to produce $4000.00 in profit (not in sales).
And what efforts does a trader have to put in to produce his $4000.00 profit? AlhheWasinjudge
is: is it possible at this current level to see wheat very much lower, or, is Nature taking care of the
farmer too once in a while? If he feels that lower prices are pretty much against the laws of Nature,
against thie laws of average, then lie buys and waits until Nature brings the price up. When sickness
overcomes man, he usually has to overcome a crisis. when things hook very blue for him. “They” expect
him to die most any moment, but he does not. He recuperates suddenly and runs like blazes towards
recovery. They can’t believe it but then he gets well. So markets. When it appears from reports that
cotton isn’t worth growing. that the boll weevil does not grow any more, that everyone wears Celanese
clothes, cotton nins up from 7.50 to 9c and nothing is said about it any more. At 7.50 a pound nobody
wanted it because they were waiting for Sc cotton. All other commodities operate in a similar way. Of
course, at lows and at extrenie highs trading comniihnents are coniparatively easy to niake out because
there is but one way to act. It becomes more difficult when we are in the middle of a movement. At
such times reactions get stronger and so do up moves. Therefore margins must be higher to protect
commitments. But at periods such as the present period, when prices have declined for 2 1/2 years
without let up, it is idle talk to expect them to still drop another 50 ~o
While banks are paying at the present time 2% to 2 1/2% interest, or on a sum of $8000.00 an
amount of $160
per year, let us for comparison’s sake assume that one has put out $8000.00 at 6%; this
would thien yield in one year the suni of $480.00. On eight contracts of wheat, withi $1000.00 margin
per contract, the profit with one single cents movement yields $400.00, and anyone knows that wheat
moves nornnlly (fluctuates) more thnn lc per day. So thnt unless one just buys at thie top eighth of a
strong move he is bound to make a profit even though it may just amount to the 6%. The big trouble
with traders is the eagerness to make more, to make it in a great hurry. Supposing we have an upward
movement and we buy. We expect a strong movement upward. As soon as we clear commission
charges, the rest is clear profit. At one time we have to risk the commitment. Let us assume we take
wheat or a stock hike New York Central or Southern Pacific around 13 and 14. When thie price has
moved away from the original purchase price so as to clear commission charges and say an extra point
or so, why not place a stop loss order just a little beyond the clearance point to let you off wifirnut a loss
in case it ivould reverse itself? Of course, it would be unwise to do so the very first or second day after
34
making the commitment, because the price has to work itself away from flue level. However, should the
price have gone ahead 4 or 5 points your way, it is an absolute necessity to place a protecting stop not
less thian
1 1/2 to 2 points away froni the buying price in order to insure at least sonie profit, even
though the stop might be taken up and the market might turn around then antI nmvs>bigherAmthis case
you have a profit clinched. Then you have to wait for another opportunity. which might come at higher
or lower levels as flue case may develop. There is never any very great rush to buy and thiere is no great
rush to sell, provided you keep stop loss orders. Another veiy good rule to use is thus: when in doubt,
get out. If things are not clear to you as to what is likely to come out of a certain movement, get out;
this stops wonving, and there is always again a chance to make commitments.
Therefore, a person having a capital of $8000.00 to trade with may be sitting in a broker’s office
from the first of the month to the last day of the month and may have made but one single trade during
that entire time aiid may have picked up just one single point net and that conservatively either up or
down and just the same his income from that one trade would allow him a very good living and still he
would have his capital intact. During a thirty-day period there are always times when a commitment is
absolutely a cinch for a. point or even two. It is in that type of trading just a matter of sufficient patience
to await that time. Who can and will do that? Not flue gambler, not the long term investor, neither the
small trader wiio likes to force thie issue but one who enters the niarket from a business point of view.
He will be in business for years and, while not in great favor among the customers’ men, he is doing big
favors to himself.
I have taken as an example a small businessman such as the grocer and compared his income
and work with that of a trader with like means. We can do the same way with smaller capital, $1000.00
to $2000.00, but we have to reduce the amount likely to be eamed accordingly and not turn around and
say this man has to increase his risk accordingly. As soon as lie does increase his risk, he is on the
niinus side before lie even starts and it will not be long thiat “thie~A’ get hiini unaware. Never take niore
risk than any ordinary businessman would take and the profits will be much larger compared to his.
.32~
A?~Q as?
C. H ‘CAGO
LAT f9’\3=4’
TcT
MA
~4
LATH S3’~f~
/
I
I
/
/
/
t. ‘YE(?PocL
~.A~ctq;&
.serrQi”ri
I~T7Ar~&
‘~
tAflrut~ ~
0
C
Al
-A-
At
~
~Jo
36
PREVIEW OF MARKETS FOR AUGUST 1939.
The market for stocks should act pretty lively as we enter the month and events of early July
should still play flit major role in the movement. Usually the hardest thing for traders to do is to take
profits; they are always anxious to buy stocks but very seldom anxious to cash in on the profits, if any
accrue. It may be advisable to look for a ceiling by mid-August.
When the July rise does develop as the previous cycle indicates it ought to continue into niid-
August, more exact, the 14th of the month should become a top. A reaction is then due over to tin 27th
of Aunust. This reactioii may come very close to die level prevailing at the beginning of the month.
From then on we should turn around sharply and close the month at top levels most]ikcly even a point
or so beyond flit mid August peak. A minor reaction is also showi for the first three days of August,
which may become simply a sidewise movement for a few days to resume tbea&vanc&
I would be inclined to take some profits mid-month, buying back after a ten days reaction or so,
to sell once more just as we enter the month of September, or even on the last day of August.
WHAT ~VE MAY EXPECT OF WHEAT DURING AUGUST, 1939
The first week of the month points toxvaids a reaction. After a sidewise movement born the 5th
to the 11th a rally should ensue that should be accomplished in steps and produce a top formation
between August 23rd to 27th. From that time on the trend should be downward, contraiy to that of
stocks for this period. It appears at the present time that the points lost from end of July to August 1 ith
will be regained by August 27th; it is even likely that the end of July top that is indicated from the
previous cycle will be exceeded somewhat.
XVHAT WE MAY EXPECT OF COTTON DURING AUGUST, 1939
The forecast of cotton for this period seems to have a similarity to the movements of stocks for
the same period. An upward movement is indicated from the entry into the month until the 14th, a
rather swift short lived reaction over to the 17th and a sidewise movement towards the 26th aiid up the
rest of the month. This tendency should keep up into September.
ALJC IflT
~
20
_______
II•
a
I
I-
~rr.ri
~$ IC
1~
20
25
c-t.p
~&ffi2
.:k...p
I
I
-A
~~r•
—I—
Ii
H’
~—‘
rrI
~
I~
—
-r
—
-—--F-————
—I—
_-~
—1-.-—
4
———-—1------
—
A U G L’St
-~
10
~
ZO
~r_
37
S
20
25
S
~O
~5
~:‘~
25
•
.--~ffir,
•
__
I——
——
~‘
Ch c~go Corn
___
~~~1~
-t
__
~
hicago Oets
—
~
.
.
~~1
__
ffi
__
-t
ii.
I±±1i~h—rH
_
___
‘-I
___
_
_
A
t
r%-~jrcmr
_
_
—
—‘U
I,
IsA
__
_
.4
.
_
__
-A
______
Fir
‘
—~
-
_______
4
~
—-
H
____
____
______
i-fl
—H’.
~
I
I
__
.J
~
____
J—h--=4z!=:=-
-J---
-~
*1~
4
L
~
I’
I
______
I’
_________
‘~F~ .st’~7L4Ts+_.u:!.:
I
j~H 1W
•
.
I
•
:::.
I
-
____________________
ChF~go Rye
1939
CYcago Wheat
W7nntpeg Wh~t
1939
Liverpcd Wheat
Wrrnrpeg Bariey
38
GRAIN MOVEMENTS, SPRING 1939
On page 34 we have daily high and low charts of thie various grains as they have been traded in
markets. We find the following phoned: Chicago Corn, Chicago Oats, Chicago Rye, Chicago Wheat,
Winnipeg Wheat, Liverpool Wheat and Winnipeg Em-hey.
Upon a superficial glance at the charts we may say there WAS an up move, which was followed
by a decline. Closer inspection will reveal thie following: While a general uptrend can be noted in all the
grains dui-ing April and May and a decline dui-ing June, die June reaction was against niy own
interpretation shown in the June issue where I had an important upward movement to start the end of
May. If we would not be human or else if we would have had the charts before us as they show now at
that tinie, we would have recognized imniediately that while the previous cycle did have a sharp up
move, in this present cycle that same movement turned into a down move. The change of trend
iievertheless did occur and it did occur oii account of a certain plaiietary combinatioii that had beeii
prevailing in thie heavens end of May. The date of change I located last September already and not in
April or in May. The i-eason for the movement to turn into a decline instead of an up movenient end of
May is unknown to me so far. Some people who know little or nothing about planetary effects cannot
understand why such misinterpretation can happen, Some people say: “Why planetary constellations
have nothing to do with wheat or anything else. It’s the rain in the niid-West that brought these prices
down. If they only would know that it is only planetary constellations that bring about rain!
All the grains of the American continent (see charts, page 34) made a bottoniarnJ\farcltl6dt
1939. Liverpool wheat, however, kept on going lower to March 30th, 1939. It was the first to make its
top on May 5th. 1939. At fiat tinie Chicago Rye started its real up- niove.
Several grains niade their
first top on May 11th, such as Corn, Oats, Winnipeg Wheat and Winnipeg Barley. Chicago made top on
May 26thi and May 31st
was the last top for all grains A few made the second shoulder on that date,
such as Corn, Winnipeg Barley, Winnipeg Wheat and even Liverpool Wheat has a corner on that day.
Coming to the actual decline of June, we note that Corn, Oats and Winnipeg Barley were the
least affected. Chicago Wheat had absolutely no pity upon traders, neither had Liverpool Wheat.
Winnipeg Wheat gave them a little breathing spell mid-June only to follow downward once more.
Liverpool and Winnipeg Wheat niade new lows compared to die March
low all die others held in the
April range of prices.
What I can see from the group of charts is this: An aspect thiat has bearing on grains in general
caused a suction of prices upward fioni mid-March to end of May, then the aspect ended and gradually
host its grip. In my own forecast I had one aspect due to strike end of May that was to bring a new wave
upward, but as we knov~ it failed to make its appearance. Consequently thw other aspect, die mid-
March one, having passed, grains dropped back because the suction upward was over. What is very
interesting is: The entire situation seems to have a relation to our latitude on earth.
We know Liverpool’s latitude on eardi is 530 24’ 5”; diat of Winnipeg
490 54
10” and the
latitude of Chicago is 41~ 50’ 1”. We do not consider in this case the longitude of the three places on the
earth. The differential in latitude between these three places is as follows:
from Liverpool to Winnipeg 3029’ 45~~
from Winnipeg to Chicago 80 4’ 19”
from Liverpool to Chicago 110344H~.
When we consider the days on which the various tops were made, via:
Liverpool May Sdi;
Winnipeg May 11th;
Chicago May 26th;
and substitute the degree differentials in latitude of the three places at which wheat is being traded,
Liverpool, Winnipeg and Chicago, we find the same ratio in the number of days elapsed from top to
39
top. There are six days from Liverpool to Winnipeg and 15 days from Winnipeg to Chicago. Let us
divide the latitudinal differences of the places with the days differentials and we get an average of 35-
38’ of latitudinal niotion of SOMETHTNG that strikes first at Liverpool and prevents it froni going
higher; after this the SOMETHING moves downward in latitude from Liverpool towards Winnipeg at a
latitudinal speed of 35-38’ per day. We hit die top in Winnipeg wheat on May ll~’ and, continuing at
the same rate of speed until we reach Chicago’s latitude, we find Chicago makes its top on May 26,
1939.
Not only is this noticeable with tops, but also when we check the lows of March 1939 when
Chicago and Winnipeg made their low on March
16th, while Liverpool iguored thie American rise
conipletehy and nioved down until Mmcli 30th, 1939. That Liverpool makes the low last and Chicago,
respectively, Winnipeg makes the how first suits perfects into the idea I wish to bring forth, since it
gives us a rising latitudinal movement from bottom to top with Liverpool being affected last. When we
construct a chart of this latitudinal motion of the SOMETHING, (page 32) we see immediately that the
SOMETHTNG must have reached the north pole or 90deg point in latitude iind then came downward
again, striking Liverpool first and then the others. From the moment of its inception thisnnnvementkepl
going constantly (during all of April) even during the time the object passed the actual north pole, again
while it nioved down- wards until it passed die cities wherein grains me traded. The SOMETHING niay
move as far as 0 latitude, or else it may have its terminal in latitude at the place where grain cultivation
ends.
Checking over previous years of the three charts of grains I find thie phenomenon recurring,
although during 1938 it did not apply at all; all grains. Liverpool, Winnipeg and Chicago, made the
important highs and lows within three days, in fact three consecutive days formed the low levels as well
as the high levels; only during June we had an exception, when Chicago made its peak on June 15th,
while Winnipeg and Liver- pool made their peaks on June 20th. My own explanation of this condition
is: during 1938 the SOMETHING was moving very rapidly, while during 1939 it moved very slowly.
While it is possible that it is always one and the same object that affects, there is a possibility that the
changes of 1938 were brought about by some other object.
Mr. Einstein brought forth an assertion a few months ago that he suspects the causes of our
troubles are more to be sought in the planet Mercury instead of in the Sun. I am working with that
planet for years and know that long ago. The great difficulty we are faced with is that Mercuiy contains
some 25 different motions in reference to our earth or to die Sun. To plot thieni all on one chart is
simply impossible; to check them all is still worse. To know them all and then figure them all out from
day to day is anodier story. There are motions in die plasiet Mercury that are used only by astronomers;
there me motions that are only used by astrologers and there are motions in him that me not used by
either of them and these motions seem to be the ones that have to be used in order to detect movements
of prices irrespective of who is behind the price, a commodity or a stock. It is interesting to note that
Chicago corn moved similar to Winnipeg wheat during this period.
OVERHEARD IN BROKERS OFFICES
A well educated, native Ameiican bought in an office some Pittsbuigh Sciew Co stock. About
an hour hater a friend of his dropped into thie office and, even iniportant people me given to gossiping,
he immediately had to tell his friend about his purchase. So, I heard him say: (of course, being in a
huriy to convey die news to the odier man he seemed to have forgotten all about the name of the stock
he invested his good money in) Jack, I just bought some Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Stove and Pipe and
Chimney, or whatever the heck they make.
40
VOLl
No 4
Preview of Markets
for September, 1939
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
41
INTRODUCTORY
The present issue of “Preview” brings additional details of great importance, laying down gradually
our philosophy. To some readers the relationship of these thoughts to markets and their movements
may appear far hauled.
As we get deeper into thie drift of things and have laid the foundation
thioroughly, we thien will shift into niore lively subjects about individual coniniodities and stocks, thieir
performance and the reasons for such performance.
Practically all the articles produced so far are not for a one time reading but they can be studied
and disected tinie and again to obtain the deeper meaning hidden therein.
Those who have missed an issue can obtain same at the regular rate as long as- avaitattc.
Carnwl, Calif, August 20th, 1939.
PROTECTING ACCOUNTS
It often times requires ceitain strategies to act right when mmkets do not perform as we expect.
In this article I shall try to bring ways and means to overconie difficulties so that we do not let
ourselves grow gray hairs over night by failing to use common sense and act quick.
In one case, back in 1932, when a trader saw his stock drop headlong, instead of acting, and
cutting short his loss, he went off with his car for a spin and let the good Lord take care of his stock.
Coming back just before the close of the market he saw stocks down another few points, and decided to
wait just another day. This procedure he kept up till the margin clerk weiit into actioii and sold.
When a house is afire, the firemen try to extinguish it with water. When stocks or commodities
do not niove according to expectations, act, to save soniethiing. Prices flow; so does nioney, it flows into
someone else’s pocket. We cannot always expect the tide to run our way: we also have to contend with
an outgoing tide. Protect yourselt no body else will. We have several means of protection. These
protections are easier to use with coniniodities than with stocks.
PROTECTION No. 1: Slop /oss order.
In order to deterniine where to place a stop loss order for a stock or a coniniodity we niust
weigh the market as a whole, the volume of trading, the price level of the market in general, the
forecast, what the market should do and the “Weekly Analysis”, if you are a subscriber to it.
When the niarket is near a low level and quiet, a stop-loss should be rather close to the low
level. When it is broken, it will be broken suddenly and a fast move will follow downward. See the lard
and cottonseed oil performance July 1 - 10, 1939.
When the market is in high levels and big volume is present, one usually does well by stepping
out altogether without using stop loss orders since high level plus big volume indicates that someone
who ought not to have stocks is buying froni thiose who bought cheap. Newspapers help thieni a great
deal by flashing across the front page all the good news about the big rise justAxlrenziLis-tmifrlg:
If the forecasts points upward and the market covering the time of the forecast sells off (wheat
June 1939) the best way would be to get out and wait or put a stop loss a few points below. The
peculiarity and difficulty of making forecasts bring it about that once in a while one of those rays
coming from the planets has been interpreted wrongly and instead of a steady advance for a fixed
period, the entire move becomes a steady decline during this same period. This is not an ~~~rormade by
the planet; lie knows what lie wants
- but a hiunian error which through niore work can be gradually
rectified,---- but such future work does not help the trader at that critical moment: he must act and act
42
quick and fast and----jump out before the house burns down. At times it is even advisable to take a
reverse position at the same moment, especially if chart indications have it that a reversal into the
original direction is very unlikely, until the tinie elenient has exhausted itself.
The least one should do is: when a strong move is indicated in the forecast to place a stop loss
order a few points below the price of the day the movement should begin. In case a three-point stop is
taken, not much can be expected of the move anymore anyhow.
PROTECTION No.2 Hed4’ing
Aside of protecting an account withi stop loss orders, we niay turn also toward hedging thie
commitment. Hedging means simply to take simultaneously the opposite side for a while. Of course,
we cannot be long of 100 shares of US Steel and hedge by selling short 100 shares of the same stock.
This would put us into neutral altogether. However, when long of “Steel” we may hedge by selling 100
shares of Bethlehem or 100 shares of National Steel. In wheat, we may be long in September, and when
we put out a hedge we may go short the same amount in the December option. When hedging
commodities we always should try to hedge on the short side the weakest option and on the long side
the strongest one. By thus I niean: if long and you want to hedge don’t go short in thie strongest option
but in the weakest. And, when short in wheat and the market moves against you upward, and you
decide to hedge, don’t hedge in the weak or slowly moving option but in the strongest one. This case we
had nicely illustrated in Cotton last fall, xvhen all options were fairly strong and holding xvhile October
was the weak brother. On days of declining prices, the average option would drop 2 or 3 points, while
October cotton at that time would lose 7 and 8 points a day. Since such conditions arise, the wrong
hedge will cause additional losses instead of offsetting losses which is really the purpose of a hedge.
Among New York traders and specialists, so-called, I remeniber thiat thiey hedge lard against
cottonseed oil or cotton against cottonseed oil. This procedure is not good and will result in big losses
once these commodities at times move together and at times move just the opposite way. One would
think off hand that in as much as cotton and cottonseed oil are of one and the same plant they should
move together. But they do it at times and at others not at all. They act like two brothers; sometimes
they harmonize but sometimes they disagree.
Hedging throws you practically into neutral, a further drop will increase the value of the short
side and at thie sanie tinie bring losses to thie long position, thus offsetting thie plus by thie minus. At
some time, however, one side of the hedge must be “lifted,” i.e. released. This is only done when the
market has stabilized itself or you have stabilized yourself so as to recoguize which way the “cat
jumps.” If you are satisfied that the decline has gone far enough, then cover the short and hold the long
or else, if you believe the rally or rise has gone far enough, drop the long position and hold on to the
short position. From this time on you are on a one way track again. The entire cost of a hedge is the
commission for can~ing the “other side” for a while.
PROTECTION No.3: Doubling up.
Suppose you are long of wheat. The action of wheat has become poor; wheat declines. It starts
to break important resistance points. You might not have hedged yet: you might not have placed a stop
loss order. Things look bad and you are long. In that case, a fast and rapid thinking process has to
develop and you may decide to double up, i.e. sell your longs and go short the verv same amount you
have been long. However, let me warn youl It is very dangerous unless done on rallies (thie doubling-up
to the short side). I know of one case where I actually saw a fellow drop $4500 inside of 30 minutes by
doubling up in JMP (Johns Mansville) with 100 shares. This was in 1931, when JMP sold between 90
and 101 in March or April. Things moved fast then and he moved fast too, and he just happened to
43
reverse or double-up “at the market,” getting bottoms and tops just die wrong way. His trades actually
were with 200 shares, since 100 shares long had to be sold and 100 shares had to be taken short on one
and the sanie trade Afterwards, die short position in die 100 shares had to be covered again and 100
shares had to be bought long so as to be on the long side.
PROTECTION No. 4: Get out and wait.
When markets move fast and one is wrongly committed, instead of looking, waiting, hoping,
expecting, asking, reading reports, and all sorts of other ways and means to prevent you from acting and
acting fast, it is at all times a good policy to just merely get out for what you can get and then
wait.
Markets are here every day. Your mind works better when the nervousness cools off When nervous,
a man does one foolish thing after the other. His mind is not under dill control. When you see a fellow
walk up and down in a broker’s office, move from one chair to the other, read a line in the newspaper,
run up to read the news ticker, this man is the one I mean who should liquidate his holdings right there
and then and go home and wait. He will be a nervous wreck in no time and will wind up with forced
losses. This was exactly the way that man described above acted who lost the $4500 in thirty minutes.
Don’t let yourself get that far!
PROTECTION No. 5: Do not overtrade.
This was discussed last month.
There is just one more thought in mind about hedging. Back in 1937, on April 7th to be exact,
just after passing the top of the bull movement, I saw the change developing and I sent out several
hundred wires to niv clients at that tinie (many will remember it wiien they read thus), stating: hedge
wheat and cotton (in stocks we had been short since March 9th, 1937). What happened? Most traders
hedged, but some did not because the customer’s man did not know what to do. He had never heard of a
hedge, except of a privet hedge. The way die trader should have approached die broker would have
been: Sell the same amount of wheat or cotton, which lam long now in the next option. Taking the case
of 1937, when we were long in May contracts, the client should have said: sell me the same amount of
July contracts. He could not have misunderstood such an order.
wired
and painted fingernails of the girls should indicate to the observer that they belong to the leisure class.
The neatly pressed pants, the best suit is worn for an interview. The subtlest speech is used during such
interviews. When the job is landed and the fellow starts to work he needs his overalls and occasionally
some strong, healthy language to produce. Then lie is die normal man, who shows his weaknesses and
his virtues.
Many, many years ago there lived people among the masses who through years of hard work
44
WHAT SHOULD 1940 BRING?
Forecasts ready for stocks, wheat and cotton for 1940; get your copy now to plan
Ahead! $25.00 each. The forecast is made in chart form showing the expected-ups and
downs based on apparent repeating cycles. Forecast for the balance of this year $6.50
each.
Order at Box 1142, Carnwl, Calif
and testing (how they actually could do it in a practical way is beyond my comprehension) found rules
about determining the diture. They developed this science to such state of completeness and exactness
that thiey most likely could say: thus day niust be a top in wheat and thiat day a bottom in cotton and thiat
was that. In the interim they had plenty of time on hand to do something else. Just hike parents are
anxious for their children to have them learn and acquire as much knowledge as possible and teach
them before diey have to part, these men, no doubt were also looking out for their children, in diis case
for thie later generations of mankind to teach thiem what they knew. But how was this to be done? They
could not just blurt out and tell everybody the laws. Very few would understand them anyhow. They
did what everybody else does to this day: They wrote the laws covered in a coat like a mummy is
covered withi clothi. They substituted certain words for othiers, many they kept in their original meaning.
They produced a “code” which can be deciphered if enough time is spent on it and the essence of the
contents, are grasped. That the great scientists of our time are working in dw wrong direction on any of
their attempts to explain die Bible can be readily seen when we read the mass of foot notes brought
below the text in works hike the Apocrvpna and Pseudepigrapa. They have done wonderful work to
translate from the original language
word for word, sense or no sense. When certain phrases gave no
sense to them they marked them as “corrupt,” but just die same they printed diem because someduing
told thieni: thiey are needed.
The
scientist’s drift of thought is:
The words
as written must mean what is commonly
understood by these words. They forget all about that dw Bible is dill of parables, and, what may
interest you the most is that I found that the word parable means actually a mathematical parable, a
parabola and “talk” means: to move.
It bothers the scientists very little that all the figures of the Bible are constantly on the “move”.
They take them for ancient nomads or roamers. If they would only add “of the sky,” they would hit the
nail.
While we talk about parabolas. we just as well hint for a moment at “fabuha” which is the Latin
word for “talk” and talk means movement (substantive),
so that Aesop’s Fables are nothing but
movements of the Animals, but which ones? The ones commonly understood or those up above? Think
that out yourself
That the word “talk” was very cleverly chosen as a substitute for “walk” may be seen when you
read back die first four words of the last sentence: “While we talk about parabolas,” meaning by
substitution while we niove about in cycles. Do we niove in cycles or don’t we?
For all people who can think it must appear strange that the Church back in 1582
decided all of
a sudden that our astronomical calculations were all wet and that we have to jump 10 days to get into
the right rhythm. What have they to do with planetary movements? Should such a change not have
come from astronomers who specialize in planetary movements? or, is it the Church which does its own
work with such movements?
At that time die command to change the astronomical calendar was simply accepted in all
countries with thie exception of England and Russia. The fornier accepted the change about 80 years
later. It did not sound logical to them to just merely change around the dates, because they, as a group
knew not the reason
and the reason could not be explained but was a matter of believing. See
Ephemeris of 1582.
I have it from a reliable source that when a youngster wants to study for priesthood and-wants lii
enter a school to study he is required to produce first of all data about his birth from several sources
who keep official records. These data have to be dirnished before they let him know whether or not he
will be allowed to start thie course. The average faniily of such a boy takes snchireqiiestaasaniatter of
routine, but. when we think about it, does it not feel strange that a school is so deeply interested about
birth data? It seems to me that dwse data are sent to some place to undergo close scrutiny. Thiere may be
some monasteries in existence, which make a specialty of working up horoscopes.
45
When we look over the mass of material diat is required to figure movements, much of which at
present is worked up by specialists, astronomers, who devote all their time to follow madiematically all
the planets and produce their exact daily position to seconds, we cannot help but arrive at the following
conclusion.
Science was throughout the ages in the hands of the clergy. So was the Bible. Somehow, some
way its true meaning was perpetuated among a few. These few had dieir assistants do the necessary
clerical work withiout recognizing the purpose of such work.
Thie machine might have worked as
follows: Hundreds of monasteries all over Europe were divided into sections. One had to figure the
movements of the Sun, another of the Moon, a diird of Venus. There might have been 20 different ones
assigned to figure planet Venus, since it contains about thiat niany individual niotions. This way all the
work was distributed and then sent to the “operating table” at Rome where specialists who knew what
to do with the Tables used them. As strange as it may sound to get thoughtsofth&kiiid A,utinevensaw
Rome on the wrong side of the fence when it came to a war. Did you? Whenever one begins you find
them immediately on the side of the eventual winner. During the Spanish war they recognized
immediately Mr. Franco, the rebel. This way they temporarily became actually an ally of Germany who
also was helping Franco as shown from newspaper reports.
Mr. Hitler seems to be a very quiet fellow. He talks not often. But, when lie does talk, things
just fly and before anyone is aware of what happens. it’s all over. This way he bagged Austria, this way
he got a hold of Bohemia, this way he most likely will get Danzig, and the veiy same way he may get
all die colonies. The same way fights happen in Munich beer Halls. You may enjoy there a mug of beer
sitting among the crowds. when all of a sudden, with one accord, mugs dill or empty begin to fly,
chairs come next, even tables move with unbelieving speed through space
a fight is on. After
ambulances haul away the injured, the old hiarniony originally prevailing is resumed and everything is
lovely. Markets do thie same, of course; after thie quiet nieetings of June thiisyear a sudden scramble for
stocks ensued in July. The averages ran up from 128 to 145
before most people realized what had
happened.
Turning back to Mr. Hitler, some people claim he has clever astrological advisers who are able
to pick the dates when things are propitious for him to act. Personally, I do not believe it, else the
financial position of the country would be better; they would be able to take advantage of the ups and
downs of commodity prices and benefit enormously.
Here is anothier thioughit thiat nierits consideration.
Why do we use a sun year? Why is it not appropriate to use a Mercury year, or a Jupiter year. or
a Saturn year? Or some other planetary year> Somebody years ago must have deemed it advisable to
make us move by the Sun year and even that one they changed on us back in 1582. Why do the non-
believers in cosmic forces use a year anyhow? Even by using it they admit diat cosmic forces make us
do thiings, even thiough thiey don’t say it. They admit that our little Moon (compared to space) causes thie
tides which brings about a rise of billions of tons of water with each change and a subsequent recession,
but they are too ignorant to understand that planets are emanating rays diat affect die ten ounces of our
brains in such a way that we do just what they (the rays) want us to do.
And this isjust it that makes markets: people are made to buy and are made to sell so that tops
and bottoms are made at the right and exact time planetary forces indicate any time in advance. The
figuring to find or locate such tops and bottoms according to laws shown in die Scriptures is another
story.
Several times I told you about keeping charts of stocks and commodities to trace and follow
their performance from day to day. The same procedure you may do with your own life and, I an~ sure
many of you will be able to trace ahead the diture when applying
the common laws of trend line,
ellipse, new highs, new lows, etc. This may be done to plot financial conditions, health (a health chart)
or business in general. Gaps* must be watched caredilly. For example, someone’s life goes on meiTihy
46
for many years on even keel. Suddenly, something happens: “a gap”, watch this gap and figure from
this point anew: it may be up, it may be down. Observe that way the movement of your bank deposits
and plot them eithier daily or nionthily. Know that on important turns we get double tops and double
bottoms; we also get single tops such as a sweepstake winning but single tops are hardly ever
overcome. For example, a business man those average business amounts to say $5000 per year lands
suddenly a contract amounting to $15,000. Unless another one follows in short order, I would say: diis
was the peak of the business and thiat business will drop below the nornial mark in due time, in fact thie
big order moved him into bear market. On the other hand, when things are very bad and the end seems
to be approaching, a slight improvement should be hailed as bullish, especially so, if a gap is made
upward (see cotton on April 16, 1939). By this gap I niean: soniethiing arrives that was not the least
expected and it was favorable in this case. Supposing you have taken a series of small losses, including
a few big ones for good measure, ~‘ou get scared to make new commitments because you expect more
losses. However, the commitment turns out profitable. The next one also, possibly even more profitable
than the first. ffi this case your chart would show a gap upwards and, should there even a reaction creep
in, the gap is not likely to be closed and a bull movement is in the making for you and profits will pile
up again.
* A gap is a space left open in the price structure between one days trading and that of the following day
~YDM~TH INC TO THINK ABOUT
In the first volume I mentioned the 22 Jewish letters according to which the Lord created the
World. The picture of a spider web, taken outside of my workshop reminded me of these 22 letters too;
so the spider is even smarter than a lot of scientists who make faces at Mr Mars. This “Spider and his
web” knows more about the Bible than they ever will. Can you see it too? (see Illustration above).
47
MOTIONS
On page 36 of the last issue I mentioned that the various planets have so many and so varied
motions in respect to our earth as well as the Sun and of themselves, mentioning some 25 varieties of
motion belonging to Mercury alone. All the other planets have similar motions.
Here is a list of motions belonging to:
Mercury:
1. Mercury’s geocentric longitudinal movement. This represents the movenwntnfMercun’ in longitude
measured as seen from the earth.
This motion may be direct, retrograde or stationary. Direct means that its motion is in the order of the
zodiacal signs; retrograde means that its motion is contrary to die order of the signs of die zodiac.
Stationary niean that at certain fixed monients it has no motion whatever but- stand&stillinllhie zodiac.
Example: On August 19th. 1939 noon London, Mercury’s position is
120
14’ in the sign of Leo
retrograde; on the 20th it reaches 120 9’ of Leo and there becomes stationary. The day after, on August
21st. 1939 it moves forward again so that at noon of that day its place is 120
11’ in Leo. All these
positions are geocentric.
2. Mercury’s heliocentric Longitude (Mean Equiiiox of Date) for the same daysisA~%follows
August 19th, 1939
3500 21’ 46”,
4;
August 20th, 1939
3540
55’ 41”,
0;
August 21st, 1939
3590 38’
8”
7
These positions are midnight positions London (0 hours) of the days. When we express these values in
signs, we obtain: 200 21’ Pisces, 240 55’ Pisces and 290 38’ Pisces, values that are completely different
from the geocentric values.
3. Mercury has also two sorts of Latitudes, geocentric,
the other helioceiitric.
On August 19th
Mercury’s geocentric position is at 2056
South and on die 21st of the month it is at 2021 South.
4. The heliocentric positions of Mercury for she sanie dates are as follows:
August 19th: 1939
50 53’ 56”
7;
August 21st: 1939
5012~ 52”
9;
Both values are minus. i.e. below the celestial Equator.
5. Next comes the declination of Mercury. It shows in the ephemeris that the declination for August
19th at noon is 140 19’ North, and on the 21st it is 14” 53’ North.
6. We have the apparent right ascension of the planet. This value is not expressed in degrees but in
hours. niinutes and seconds. In our example we find that on August 19th, 1939 thie apparent iight
ascension of Mercury at 0 Hours London is Sh 55’ 36”, 22; on August 21st, it is 8 h 55’ 34”, 29; on the
20th it is 8h 55’ 20”, 52.
This apparent right ascension is the very sanie thing as the geocentric longitude of the planet; only one
is expressed in hours, minutes and seconds, while the other is expressed in degrees, minutes and
seconds of the Zodiac. The makers of the ordinary ephemeredes just take the right ascension and
convert it into geocentric longitude; 24hours equal 360 degrees in this case, and 0 hours, 0’, 0”
represents 0 Aries 0’ 0”.
7.The next item to consider is the tine distance of the planet from the earth, which varies from day to
day. Of the dates in question this true distance is as follows:
August 19th,
0.701279
August 20th,
0.719863
August 21st,
0.739840
S. Not only does this position require consideration, but also the differentials of these distances, which
are:
48
between August 19th and August 20th plus 18584,
between August 20th and August 21st plus 19977.
These differentials bring the planet to an extrenie far distance as well as to an extrenie near distance to
the earth.
9. The semi—diameter of Mercury changes also constantly. It shows that on August l9~’ this semi—
diameter of Mercury is 4”, 76 and on August 21st it is 4”, Slat 0 hours London.
10. The horizontal parallax varies also from day to day. We find it to be on August 19th 12”, 55 and on
August 21st 11”, 89.
liThe time of the transit over the Meridian of Washington is also of importance. On August 19th the
transit occurs at 1 lh 7’ and on August 21st at 11 h 0’.
V
‘
•
I
~‘..h,\..
..‘.
4
s’.’
S
A,
Ii±.I•
..i
.c.•—
j~i
‘‘I’’
.-
______.-,~
~1
I
,..
0
•I’•.
I
‘~‘
• ~~II
II
~
I
~
•iI.’
C’
•‘
‘
~
•‘
I—
—i—..I
,,.
..,
-
ii
•l,
ii
I
•I
•
0
‘1
II
I
I
~
•
•0:
-
Sr
r’rL
~
—ri
•
Ccr..
A. J
0’
I
____ I ____
I
~
.k
.~4
r
-i
I~,
•j+
Ci.
.11
‘Jo
‘~d
~—.•
7
.4
~
I’
i
___
I
____
I
i
I
I~ V I,
0 .j
I
C>
d
I.—
~
e~
±.i
~
‘
I
II.
I
— iv,
—~
I’’’’
I
I:.:,
Explanations ofa few Latin words and sentences:
noon positions
of~ianets
Latitude ofplanets on the day
Vioun aspects
oldyears
Gregorian years
Positus pianetarum diurnus:
Latitudo planetarum ad die:
Svzygiae Lunares:
Anni veteris:
Anni Gregor:
en or cum, with;
canda, the tail;
the nan es folio ‘ing the Moon aspects represent the various fixed stars which are passed, such
as hydra, the water snake: Pigel, Orion, Hercules, A returns, Lyre, Stellisfixis, fixed stars.
Die, the day
The hours given in the Table ofSyzygiac innaves as well as planetarum mutnac are lip to 24
lionis.
The Ephemeris was made for Bologna, Jtaly noon.
12. The value arising from the reduction to Orbit which, contains die contction to be applied to the
heliocentric longitude in order to obtain the longitude measured along the orbit of the planet. This orbit
longitude is equal to the distance from the mean equinox to the node, plus the distance from the node to
49
the planet.
August 19th this value is minus 1i’41”, 7
August 21st this value is niinus 12’ 47”, 9
13. The next value of importance is the Radius Vector of the ellipse. This value is given in logarithms
and represents the distance of the center of the planet from that of the Sun. The values for our dates are:
August l9~
9.5634116
August 21>~
9.5495621
14. The differentials of the logs also form a sort of a motion. They are:
Between August 19th and 20th. minus 69102
Between August 20th and 21st, minus 69303
15. The stellar maguitude of the planet from day to day is another item that requires watching.
During
August this niagnitude diniinishies from 2.8 to 0 and covers in this tinie August 9th to August 29th.
There is a plus and a minus side to the magnitude.
16. The illuminated disk of Mercury represents another important item. We can distinguish 4 kinds of
niotions and not one has anything to do with the oilier except that they pertain to Mercury’s disk.
16a. (16 ) The ratio of the area of the illuminated portion of the apparent disk to the area of the entire
apparent disk regarded as circular. This value changes as follows during August 1939:
August 14~’
0,026
August19~
0,111
August 24th
0,265
16b. (17) The angle between the Sun and the Earth as seen from the planet.
This value changes very rapidly and the figures for Aunust are:
August 14th
162
August 19th
141
August2411’
118
16c. (18) The angle, which the line joining the cusps, or extremities of the illuminated portion, rnakes
with the meridian. This angle is of great importance due to its swift change causing there by changes in
the human brains as to wanting something and not wanting it shortly thereafter. To show the fast
changes occuning with this angle I have to bring its size over a few months:
July
25th
260
August
410
August9~
760
August 14th
1600
August 19th
1830
August 24t11
191~
Sept. 3thi
2020
16d. (19) The next value of interest is the brilliancy of the disk. Also this value undergo swift changes
as shown below:
July30~~
19.1
August 41h
9.8
August
2.5
August l4~
4.6
August1911’
18.9
August 24~’
39.7
50
Besides these actual motions in space which all belong to but one planet (Mercury), we must not forget
that there are fixed places of great importance whose proper motion in space is very small so as to be
negligent for our work. The planet crossing over thiese spots requires attention:
20. Mean longitude of node (Mercury) 470 36’ 29”, 4
21. Mean longitude of Perihelium ~Mercurt
760 30’ 22”, 8
22. Mean longitude at thie Epoch (Mercury) 1490 59’ 50”, 79
Thus, we can see that the average astrologer who plays around with the geocentric longitude of the
planets does not use nor even think of the many other motions contained in one simple planet, all of
which must be considered and weighed as to their possible effect.
In the event you are sufficiently interested to learn more about the effects of some of thesmmntionmand
how thiey bring forth tops and bottoms in stocks and commodities, write me for a special course of
instruction on this subject.
All we have done here was analyze roughly Mercur39s motions. We have 6 more planets to contend
with. Uranus, Neptune and Pluto we don’t need since they are not useful for our work. They are
intensifAving certain spots but thiat’s all.
A report came out on the news ticker sonic time ago about Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad paving some dividend The “town
of which eveiy office nearby can boast of one, being a littleforeiguci; read it of “Shakespeare & Ohiopays regular
dividend U
The WEEKLY ANANLYSJS issued each Saturday supplies a closerview of market bends; it should assist you in shorter
trades and at times of uncertainly.
$12.50 tree months.
Many opportunities for
“in between” trades in stocks and
commodihe~x Sendyour subscnjntion now. Box 1142.
The Weekly ANALYSIS, issued each Saturday supplies
a closer view of market trends; it should assist you in
shorter trades and at times of uncertainty. $12.50 three
months. Many opportunities for “in-between” trades in
stocks and commodities.
Send your subscriptions now Box 1142
51
FORECAST OF MARKETS FOR SEPTEMBER 1939
WHAT WE CAN EXPECT FOR STOCKS!
Labor Day brings usually a change of trend. They also say in New York brokerage offices. ~Sell
them on Rosh-Hashanali and buy theni on Yoni Kippur.” Rosh-Hashanah, the Hebrew New Year, falls
on Thursday. September 14th, while Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement falls on Saturday, September
23rd. I have quite ofteii iioticed that there is some truth to this rule, but this year the rule should not
work so good.
Labor Day falls on Septeniber 4th, a Monday. As said before, we usually can expect a change of
direction over the holidays (Sunday Sept. 3rd and Monday Sept. 4th). This year should not be an
exception.
As we enter the month of Septeniber, the niarket should be boiling and good prices should prevail.
This should be a top for a while from which distribution of stocks should begin, especially so if the last
four or five days of August have been real strong and bullish feeling has come into the masses. In that
case would dispose of all long stocks before we close for the holidays. Leading issues would even short
right there and cover thiese shorts by the 11 thi of the monthi, which is a Monday. At the sanie time would
then resume long positions, expecting a gradual comeback to the end of the month for a secondary top.
It should fall short a little compared to the top, which is expected just before Labor Day. The last few
days of the nionth, Septeniber 28th to 30th, would sell out again all longs and resunie short positions on
strength for another dip into October.
The range of movements during September could amount to some ten points in the averages,
and the lows of August niighit even be violated by a few points, just thie sanie it should not be thie
beginning of a bear movement as yet for stocks: on the contrary, we can expectalradingmarketat
high
levels for quite some time to come.
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT OF WHEAT:
The perfomiance of wheat should have been rather poor during August and the rally mid-August
should also have petered out. After Labor Day a few days of strength are shown, followed by another,
rather swift drop to new low ground. This sharp drop should begin by September 10th and end by
September 18th. A rally should ensue for the balance of the month. This rally, however, should not be
worth niuchi and for October another dip is indicated. While wheat prices should be at very low levels,
they are such that they wear out most any trader in that new lows are likely to appear after run-ups.
These run-ups should thus be used for selling and not for buying wheat with the idea of a new bull
niovement being inaugurated at this time. The picture may look niore like the cocoa perfomiance
during the first half of the year. I would keep close stops on all long positions in wheat at this period.
WHAT WE MAY EXPECTOF COTTON:
Cotton should be getting strong as we enter the month and the steady price improvement that began
last March should reach a climax this month, a major top. This top is indicated for September 23-26,
Yom Kippur. A steady continued clinib should be witnessed up to this tinie. On the dates given would
switch from long to short and hold these positions into October. I would do so specially if we get big
volume, strong advances and good news about scarcity of cotton. By the end of September cotton
should be through with its bull cycle.
52
Special notice: As you knov~; the forecasts are all made up by using apparent repeating cycles of
what has happened previously. These forecasts for quite long periods have followed very well the
actual developments;
only at intervals Nature seenis to throw a crow-bar
into thie
sequence by
producing exactly lOOoo counter move, whereby length, time, beginning and end correspond exactly
just the same. We had this case in wheat during the first three weeks of June. We must guard ourselves
against such occurrences. The first requisite of protection is a daily high and low chart of wheat in case
you trade in wheat, or of cotton, if you trade in cotton, or of the averages if you trade in stocks and of
the individual stocks which you trade in.
The next requisite is a reasonable margin so that
an
unexpected move can be survived without being injured too much. Requisite number thiree is: learn all
you can leam about niovements, possibilities and impossibilities. Back year charts, which
may be
copied out of newspapers from the library will reveal more than anything else. We must know for
example that commodities can rise in a straight line upwards for eight to ten months and gain 800 to
1000 points during such a time; they can drop that much too, when we are in bear markets and, what is
very important, the declines are usually occurring much faster than rises. Wheat can gain one frill dollar
in a year and, while doing so, can have reactions of 20 to 3Cc several times and just the same be bullish.
Therefore, a 1Cc margin for wheat, except at very low levels, is dangerous, to say the least. Books,
wherein valuable rules about trading are given such as
Time Factors,” and othiers, should be studied,
since any one who specializes in a field of endeavor must be equipped with basic knowledge~
The next requisite for protection of any reader who follows my forecasts is: when a movement
does not develop as analyzed and the niarket has not gone too far, liquidate and wait, or else reverse, by
following the counter trend as long as the forecast shows one direction, even though it would be the
contrary direction. This last idea is somewhat dangerous to follow since it is contrary to the previous
cycle whose true direction will be taken up at times rather suddenly (a cross aspect niight bring about
such a condition temporarily). Since the market is here all the time, we might just as well wait and
watch. Wheii a house is afire we try to extinguish it. When our forecast proves faulty once in a great
while, it is of no use letting the market get thie best of us, but let us extinguish the fire as fast as we can,
by juniping out, clearing all positions for thie tinie being. Then, when a propitious turn is shown, get
aboard again.
‘TIE
U
L4.
~
-
1
_
A
2
r#-~
___
__
-r
.,I~
4
.—&
_____
/
____
ri
S.
~L
~~t,r.v1
•
.
.
—
a
53
NEW DISCOVERIES
Discoveries are coming pretty thick with me these days and here are some works mentioned
which I am now sure of that they are all treating one and the same subject but with different coats; they
are all old Text Books on Astrology:
1. The Bible and all those works, which are called Scriptures;
2. All the Egyptian writings on pap~il, on tablets or on tombs;
3. All thie old tales (Maerchen) such as the 7 Dwarves;
4. All the stories of 1001 Nights and other stories fioni Arabia;
5. All the myths, be they Greek or Roman.
And---I am not venturing too far-- when I say: all the figures and persons irrespective of their
names as well as all the places where the events are supposed to have happened which date before the
year 1400.
Everything supposedly coming from beyond that time are absolute inventions, produced by
astrologers who knew the laws of planetary movements completely and their main work consisted of
producing or preserving these laws in all sorts of forms for future generations. They all were begun at
certain planetary constellations thus insuring permanent preservation.
You may object vehemently to such ideas and say: what about the Romaii coins that bring thm
heads of Caesar and others? True, some of the Emperors might have lived, but the stories printed about
them are explaining planetary movements, which were embodied in these persons.
Take the pain and read 1001 Nights. Note: that the heroes always are absent for one year;
sometimes they make it ten years to change the situation some. However, thie meaning is: now, we go
one cycle forward. The story of the “Fishier and the Ghost” for exaniphe brings four planetary positions.
It then lists commodities, which should be bought when the first planetary position prevails; then it
brings commodities, which must be bought when thw second planetary condition is- preseiitanxl.so.fortk
Later on after discussing the “porter” loaded withi the victuals it explains clearly when thie various
commodities must be sold again. i.e. depending upon other planetary positions. This story is one of the
best to illustrate commodity trading. Other stories treat about other things of life. The plots are so
cleverly chosen, so intriguing, and revealing the exact laws of astrology i.e., the effect of planetary
niovements upon our ten ounces of brains, which
the scientists explain away as being “products of a
dazed mind” and why is this possible? Because the scientists fail to recognize the first Law about
mankind: We are just doing what we are told to do according to our moment of birth, singly, as group
(sailors, carpenters, stock traders, doctors) as well as Nations and finally as a people that belongs into
the present era and not into another.
In all these works note especially the slow and gradual build-up. First we have to do with one or
two persons and with a simple plot; this establishes the “planetary positions.’ After thus all persons
begin to niove; they cry and niarry and niake trips; they laugh and plough thie field. Most of these active
verbs mean definite sorts of movements in predefined sectors of the Zodiac5so lhmLone who grasps the
meaning of a few words once, will, by trial and error, be able to fasten dowi additional words until he
gets a brand new dictionary. So that for example, each time I read in any of these books that someone
“cries” I merely underline the true word for it: “to move retrograde” and keep on reading. He, who cries,
moves retrograde. Which planet is meant by it is identified by the name given to the person. There may
be 5000 or even more names found in all these works, just the same we have but 7 planets to use; they
are nicely divided aniong thieni and I have discovered also the identification of niost ottliest.nanitsanA
which planets are meant, becomes rather easy after a while.
Yes, market movements can be safely traced when we follow Harun Arraschid of the 1001 Nights, at
least thiat is what I found! More about it in thie next issue.
54
VOLl
No 5
Preview of Markets
for October 1939
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
55
A MONTHLY PUBLICATION IN THE INTEREST OF
STOCKS AND COMMODITY TRADERS
All statements made in this publication are George Bayer’s personal opinion. They are based upon apparent recurring cycles
of time and price. The forecasts given herein, while made with the utmost care are not guaranteed.
WHAT VALUES HAVE OLD THINGS?
~45 stated in another place I like to buy old books. Let me substitute the word “seasoned” for
“old.” Newspapers, for example, are read one day and then thrown away; magazines are used a little
longer, since their contents are such as to make thiem readable at any time, especially if it is a story
magazine. But, we may not really say “any time” since this application would go too far. Let us just
think back thirty years or so and read over stories written at that period. They feel strange, certain
references to conditions, to style, mode of transportation, gossip of thiat time, etc., do not fit any more
into our surroundings. We do not hive in thiat tinie any niore.
Books of a scientific nature last much longer. Herschel’s Astronomy, publisberLmore than 100
years ago sounds and reads like a scientific book published yesterday. It has value in itself The laws
given therein have stood the test of time since they were correct and true. Anything that is true will
stand for a long time. About the value of religious books, fables and tales we have enlarged already.
Something of value is usually cheap and not expensive. You can buy Bibles for a quarter at
Woolworth’s. Tales and fables can be had in most second hand bookshops on the nickel counter, since;
when youngsters have grown beyond reading such books they are sold for junk.
Many valuable pieces of art, pictures, paintings, furniture, most everything contained in homes
of rich people can be had for the proverbial song at public auctions. I am not speaking of small countrv
auctions but of those held at art galleries. Rich people die; the heirs want the cash; entire estates are
then sold at auctions for what they bring. Cheap stuff is bunched together and sold in lots, usually at a
dollar a whole basket or a case full of ware. More valuable goods are sold by the piece to the highest
bidder. When you visit one of these places, it puzzles you quite often that some articles that approach
niore the goods handled at stores bring much better prices thian thiose not handled in stores. The reason
for it is that people don’t know what is of value. In one of the auctions at Irvington, N. Y., a year or so
ago there was a bunch of colored candles, six to a box. They brought between $1.75 to $2.50 a box
straight through, although
in the stores you buy them for $0.50 a box. On the other hand, an
Encyclopedia Britannica. which was on the shelves for three years, brought $30.00. It had never been
used. In an auction out on Long Island last fall, a friend of mine acquired a brand new silver set for
$200.00, which does not retail for less than $500; a few carpets, real Persians, he picked up for $250;
try and get thieni in a store for less than $700 or $800. But, one has to know what lie is buying.
Everything is for sale, but there is a difference.
The stock market (also the commodity markets) is full of bargains everv day. The bargains may
be on the upside or on the downside.
How can we judge which ones are on the bargain counter and which ones arc not?
When it comes to buying, I have one good rule for you: the older the stock, the safer it is to buy.
It may go down on you, but it is very unlikely that it burst and moves to zero. Time tested the stock. It
went thiroughi thie 193 1-193 2 market, thiroughi the 1921 niarket, possibly already through
thie 1907 panic.
Stocks that could survive these shocks should survive many others. An old stock has a record. The
fluctuations from day to day are available for years back. A new stock may be all right, in fact, it might
be even better than the old ones, but I prefer old books to new books.
56
Old stamps are worth more than new ones; I know that as a stamp collector. Old paintings are
worth more than others; the Torah, written with black fire on white fire, 2000 years before die heaven
and die earth were niade should be worth more than all die niodemistic ideas of the present age.
If a stock has been listed some 38 or 40 years ago around 50, moves down to 8 and then up to
262 and back to 22 shows what it can do: it can be very bearish, also ve~ bullish. But a stock listed
within the last few months or last few years do not tell you anything about its habits, it’s possibilities,
its good and bad features.
Why do people speak of a “trusted employee”? Only experience can show whether he can be
trusted or not. Admitted, everyone has to start once. When we look at the “Positions open” columns of a
newspaper we find invariably in each
ad: “experienced only need apply.” Some tinie, somehow ‘the
somebody’ must gain experience. We must give the people a chance to work themselves up; the same
with stocks; we must watch the new stocks very carefully and follow their performance. If they prove
within a certain time that they act like regular fellows and do not make stunts, which
are against
common rules, then we may include gradually one or the other to our list of “tested stocks.” Any stock,
that moves for any length of time against the general trend, eliminate it irrespective of how fast it
moves.
Continue thus line of thioughit; it should be worth your while.
LET’S REVEAL THE TRUTH
KORAN, Chpt. III: “The unbelievei s will say, thus is nothing but silly fables of Ancient times. And
they will forbid others from believing therein, and they will retire afar off from it.”
PART 1
For sonie tinie now I am working on thie book, called 1001 Nighits. Fortunately, evidently by
necessity, I bought a few years ago a German edition, 4 vol, translated from original texts by Gustav
Weil, re-edited by Ludwig Fulda, published 1914. It consists of 1600 pages. The actual translation was
made in 1836. The translator says in his introduction thiat publishers like to trim old original texts to suit
their prospective buyers.
Several translations of 1001 Nighits had been made into French were so far
away from truth and facts that it is difficult to recognize them.
Weil insisted upon the publishers to
eithier print it the way the original shows or else retranslate the French edition. flby Anton Gallant
The second edition of 1865 whose “Introduction” is also contained in the edition on hand, we
find opinions of various savants and historians who have made extensive studies of Arabian literature
and of Tales of the Orient.
They claim that these tales were not produced before the 15th Century,
which I found myself and mentioned it in the September issue.
Places and rulers are quoted which
could not have existed prior to that time. Coffee and tobacco are mentioned in one or two stories. These
commodities had not been introduced prior to that time.
Coming back once more to die first foreword, the translator says: They are children’s stories,
apparently intended originally for grown-ups, wherein we seem to recognize valuable poetry but are not
able to peel it out. The stories are usually read too early in life; the ability to grasp their deeper meaning
was not developed as yet, and juvenile editions are abridged here and there. But, how much does he
profit, who as a ~own-up
returns to these stories! He says further: “1001 Nights is a ‘creation’.” He is
right in thiat. “It is a book not produced by one authior.” He is right in thiat. “Nobody, irrespective of the
amount of inventive ideas he possesses could have possibly completed such work.
It is such a
monstrous work produced by many nations and people covering many centuries.t
57
Later on I shall show by translating his own words in astrological language that he has inade-thie
right deductions.
He says further: “In thiese Tales things happen thiat never have occurred anywhere,” had he
added “in this world,” he would have hit the nail or else, he would have had to add “except in the
Zodiac.”
Then he comes with a very good statement: “Many hundreds of years and many hundreds of
miles lie between thus world and ours.” Of course, he means: between Arabia and Germany, while the
actual meaning should be: between cosmos and our 10 ounce brain matter. He says again: “Why do we
not feel some space between these products of past ages and countries? Why do these stories never age
but continue like a continuous Spring?” This is splendid, but he did not know why. Because they were
started at a monient when planetary constellations insured continued belief and continued reading of
such stories the same way as the Bible was produced. However, he gives an answer saying “No doubt
because it is but a coat containing no person within it.” Aha
subconsciously he struck actually at die
root, but he did not recognize the root. “The figures which roam around in these stories which approach
us and retreat, which act like human beings, and are taken as living beings.” We shall call them planets
for our work. “The continued events as sudden changes from good fortune into misfortune and round
the other way of persons even the ghosts and nymphs are so varied and changed thiat each carries so to
say its own face.” If you ever did sonic work on astrology, you know that all angles formed between
two planets act differently. in sign, in longitude, in latitude as well as in declination; ther=orewe may
distinguish thousaiids of combinations each having its own effect upon the brains and they are all
treated consecutively in 1001 Nights. He goes on saying:
“Many of the tales are not free from awkward repetitions as well as showing a broadening out
and explaining where such seems unnecessary.” ffi this statement the translator is all wet. These fellows
knew astrology; thiey knew the difficulties of students where they might fall down tread on shippeiy
ground and go wrong. They mighit have stunibled at thiese places thieniselves once and to make sureAbat
the sense and meaning is clearly understood so that there are not to be any ifs noawheii’s, they go to the
pain to repeat, emphasize (die same you will find in die Bible, too), to broaden out and bring back
previous statements either actually in the same words or slightly changed. But, since hardly anybody
knows what these books are all about they try to ridicule the writers about their awkwardness in using
the language. “We are much astonished to find amid the most gruesome and savage traits tenderness
and sweet talk, a hiighi moral standard between thie sexes which is far above our present “proud culture.”
Explanation: Aspects are good or bad, bring love affairs and kill ruthilessly thiey niake nioney for you
and take it away if need be. So what is there to be astonished about? “The love stories contained in
1001 Nights belong to the loveliest literature has ever been able to produce.” This needs no further
comment. “Within the leaves of this book world experience of innumerable generations looks at us.”
Since planetary action covers everything, everything has to be treated in the book, all possibilities. It is
surely not a one sided scientist who knows a little about his special branch sucbras~conntin~ztlie ring=nf
a couple of thousands
of trees, measuring the size of the distance between these rings, up in a
watershed, niaking deductions f~rom the past years of heavy rainfalls and getting up a book later on:
How to determine rainfalls. If these fellows would not have put their nose into all sorts of sciences to
dig up “planetary phenomena” they never would have been able to find die laws and furthermore
nobody could write such multicolored stories with a sense in them. We must not compare these xvritings.
with the modern type of music such as my radio tries to produce once in a while just before or after I
get my market quotations each day. I bet the writers of 1001 Nights would aim around in their grave if
they heard such tunes and mixtures.
He says furthier: “Thie great achievements of Science during thie last hundred years (written
1836) as unbelievable as they might appear. have strangely brought forth even more desire for Tales
and Stories of this kind. The more our power spreads on “earth,” the less is left in the dark and the
unexplored, the more victoriously our “wisdom” finds formulas and mathematical rules, the more our
58
path travels from “facts” to “fantasy”. Answer: The subconscious feeling exists everywhere that we
don’t know thie laws of motion, althiough these writers of 1001 Nights and the Bible just octruate the
truth to thie readers. How hard thiey try can onlybe seen when you can interpret at least soniethiing of it.
He even answers this question rather cleverly by saying: “If we can imagine a future time, when no
questions have to be put anymore, which would explain everything clearly, measure it, weigh it and
number it, would then still exist a demand for Tales?” He hits the nail: hi that the “Tales” give the rules
of all motions, which
can be only gotten through
longitude, declination and latitude, i.e. measure,
weight and number.
Mythological texts are much related to the Tales. They may be Greek or Roman, German or
Norse. All are explaining laws of planetary niotion and thieir effect upon human beings as well as upon
all the other things.
I have before me “The Classic Myths” based on “Age of Fables” published in 1855.
My copy
was printed in 1899. The introductory part is all we want to go into here since it represents the opinion
of the writer and we shall try to show where he is mistaken. He says: “Myths are stories of anonymous
origin, prevalent among “primitive” people and by them accepted as true, concerning supernatural
beings and events, or natural beings and events influenced by supernatural agencies.
“Fables are made by individuals; thiey may be told in any stage of a nation’s hiistory---by a
Jotham when the Israelites were still under the Judges, 1200 years before Christ, or by Christ himself in
the days of the most critical Jewish scholarship; by a Menenius when Rome was still involved in petty
squabbles of plebeian and patricians etc. etc.
“Fables are vessels made to order into which a lesson may be poured. Myths are born, not
made.”
Let us explain what he said so far. Myths are cycles originating at a common center (all are
starting at one and thie sanie point). They exist among thie original cycles and cannot be changed. By
“not subject to change” I mean: a planet that starts at 0 Aries will never be prevented by anything to go
around the Zodiac 360 degrees and after a predeterniined period will again reach diis point. Angles,
conjunctions. direct or retrograde motion occurring during such a transit with other planets or of itself
matters not. Thus, such a cycle is meant by a myth, while, by a Fable, we understand cycles which are
restrained or rather incidental, such as a conjunction between Mars and Mercury which does not happen
with even’ round of Mercuiy, but with each second round only. Therefore, when a fable explains the
conjunction Mars to Mercury we would be wrong to expect its effect each year since it happens but
every two years. I am speaking here of geocentric positions and not of heliocentric movements.
Afterwards this savant conies with things that makes me boil; “Myths are the outcome of
“naive” guesses at the truth, of mistaken and superstitious attempts to satisf\’ the curiosity of primitive
and “unenhightened” people (the ones who were able to fool the millions of “enlightened ones” for the
last 500 years), to “unveil the mysteries of existence” (here he is again 1000 a right), make clear the facts
of the universe and the experience of life (10000 right) and to teach the meaning and the history of
things (100Cc right). These are the questions thiat nearly every child and every savage asks: What is the
world, what is man? (How about the grown ups’? Do they know it?) Who made thent?What eTh& did the
maker do, and what the first men? Whence came the commodities of life? What is death and what
becomes of us after death? The answers to such questions crystallized themselves gradually into stories
of the creation, of the gods, and of the heroes
orefathers of men, but magnified. because unfamiliar
(W) mysteries (7?) and remote (yes, for him).
Old literature abounds in explanatoiy myths of so highly imaginative character thiat
“we
niodenis! I”
are “tenipted”
to read
into
them nieanings WHICH
THEY NEVER
POSSESSED.
(Professor, this is a very good answer). For the diverse and contradictory significations that have in
recent years been proposed for one mid thie same myth could not all, at any one time, have beeii
entertained by the MYTH MAKERS.”
59
“A mythi, whether explanatory or aesthietic, is of unconscious growth, almost never concocted
with a view to instruction.” My answer to thus statement is: A plus is a plus and a minus a minus. It is
yes or no; no two ways about it. Writers of books for lack of knowledge have to drag on books and
books of what other had written already. and concoct a new book for the public, although nothing new
is in it. A planetary aspect has but oiie effect; the one iiiheient oii accouiit of its momeiitaiy longitude,
latitude and declination: this effect is described in the myth. The writer of the myth cannot go about and
write a big story besides to fill a volume, when all lie has to say (as an example): When Venus crosses
its Node then this and this will happen to wheat, that and that will happen to rubber or to hides. He says
it and thiat ends the MYTH. hi actuality I was exemplifying here a fable since it does not cover ALL
planets, but I cannot possibly give an exaniple of a niythi, without giving out thie secret of niotion, which
I found. There are enough hints herein that some may detect it.
He says further: “The myths presen’ed in the literatures of main’ civilized nations, such as the
Greeks, present to the imaginative (where is the imagination??! !)) and the moral senses ASPECTS OF
FRAUGHT with contradiction. In certain myths the gods display themselves as beautiful, wise and
beneficent beings; in others they indulge in cruel, foolish and unbeautiftil practices and adventures.
These contradictory elements have been called the reasonable and the senseless. (Any textbook on
astrology would enlighten thie Light.).
I don’t believe this writer ever read the Jewish Legends: else he would get a fit when he reads in
Vol. I of that series that Adam and Eve after leaving Paradise met a man who left his child with them
and because the child cried, Adam killed it, cut it up and boiled the little tyke. He ate it mid when the
man came back to take the child away again, the child’s bones rattled in Adam’s stomach and reveale4
his whereabouts. Some gruesome tale, but the Hebrew writer just had no other way out to explain the
law he was treating but by making real stew of it. The Arab stories treated the explanation of the laws in
a real nice and refined way. We all realize that a steak can be cooked tender by one and tough by
someone else and both call themselves “cooks.”
The trump card with his explanations of myths comes here. He says: “There are several ways of
accounting for myths. According to the theory of DETERIORATION, man, althiough he had in the
beginning knowledge of common facts, pure moral and religious ideas, true poetic conceptions, has
forgotten with the lapse of time, the significance of words, facts, men, and events, adopted corrupt
iiioral and religious notions, mid given license to the diseased imagining of untrue and unlovely
conceptions.
We don’t require to print the rest of his arguments about the theory of “Iniprovement” or
“progress.” What he says above is 10000 correct but unfortunately he tries to apply the reverse. In our
age we have wandered way off fioni the true conception. froni the facts and have stepped downward, in
reverse, away from truth; this is why we don’t realize the values of these old writings however hard
these writers have labored to pick the right moment to make the stories permanent and accessible to a
few. They are just dumb mid blind mid senseless to the noble task they have performed for us. They
have in their dunibness thie nerve of ignorance to belittle thieni, to ridicule them, to call them savages
and what not. If these men could get up today and look over just a hundred books I am sure 99 if not
100 would be bunied at the stake as beiiig just ephemeral ideas, “best sellers” for a month mid iiothiiiig
thereafter. Their works of facts can be printed at any time by any printer, and he will have a permanent
source of income: why?
Because they were able to begin them at the right moment to embody
permanency into them. How many a business of any sort lasts more than S years? Very few, since they
were all begun at the wrong time. But who knows the right time to start something? The myths, the
Oriental Tales, thie Scriptures (thiose thiat describe cycles), can tell you if you study theni long enough
and also take the right moment to begin with such studies!
60
PART II
Since the laws of motion begin to i-un after me instead of me running after them, I recall that in
the Jewish Legends there is a statement to the effect that a fellow was trying to move a mountain by
attacking it with a shovel. The neighbors and friends inquired about his intentions and when he told
them lie was going to move thiat niountain they thioughit: that guy is nuts. However, as years went by he
had removed quite a bit of it. The further he dug, the easier things went with him, in fact his shovel
seemed to take gradually loads as big as a wheelbarrow would hold; suddenly, the remaining part of the
mountain gave way all by itself, spreading and opening the vast land beyond. He had moved the
mountain.
Readers, I have done it and did move also that same mountain; I am on the other side of it
already. The causes of all movements are absolutely clear to me now. But, like we find in the Scriptures
that the Israelites had to build a Teiiiple, so niust I now take all thie sniall partklesandsct.tliem.togethier
into the working machinery.
Now, since I told you this you may want to know how I removed the last half of the mountain
which moved away as if melting. There may be some among you who would like to tryjust what I did.
The laws are very hard to find and they are impossible to find for anyone who does not know the
Gennan language, and even this is not enough; he must understand some medieval German. This
applies to all Scriptures including the Oriental “Maerchen” of which I spoke in the last issue. Besides,
he must have “tasted” a little bit of everything in the way of sciences, physics, chemistry, astronomy,
history. biology, languages, niodem and ancient, lie niust have gone thiroughi all possible and impossible
systems of “astrology” such as are used by the public, he must know mathematics without taking
recourse to “answer books.” He must have gone thirough the mill as far as markets are concenied.
Anyone who does not answer this description or who is not willing to study alt these things first should
abandon his efforts to solve the puzzle. Of course, eternal patience is also a requisite, since even
“Rome” was not built in a day. A fast worker who has thoroughly digested all I have written in these
“Previews” may accoiiiplish the job in about ten years. It took me nearly ten years to coach myself from
dividends and earning stateiiients over towards thie Bible; so you are saved ten years already!
All work should be in writing, keeping notes of all thoughts and ideas as they develop so that
die good thioughts are gradually separated from thie chaff Since we kiiow from markets thiat thiere are
bull movements and bear movements, we have to assume that human beings have bull movements as
well as bear movements. Now then, since it is difficult to distinguish when a bull movement begins in
yourself, you simply must take a chance through trial and error to discover it. If you miss up on that
point by a week or so you will not find the right beginning even thiough everything just stares into your
face, telling you: take it. Hence, on-and-off work on thus probleni would not get you far since Nature
most likely will make you work or suggests that you work just at the time you won’t find things. There
are thousands of miners up in the Nevada hills trying for gold, but very few find a bonanza. So that
uninterrupted hard work only will iiiake you woik “at the moment” of the right beginning to bring
success; since points of beginning reoccur, too. Those readers whio studied my “Time Factors,” the
“Astrology Lessons,” or my tentative work, “Bible Lessons,” have inkling as to the basic knowledge
you have to have. Some people sent me back “T. F.” telling me: it’s too hard for me to understand.
They forgot thiat trading in niarkets is the hardest thiing anyone could attempt. Even for normal
endeavors,
as businessmen
or
tradesmen
we have
to study subjects
like
advertising methods,
psychology of men, etc., if we want to be above the average. Many people go to special schools for
several years just to acquire that superiority. The average man wants to go into the iiiarket as soon as he
has some money saved up or some inheritance has put him temporarily on easy street, without the
slightest work, having in mind to “take the gravy” but usually he doesn’t get to first base.
I shall try to bring forth gradually the reason why the various sciences must be pretty well
niastered in order to reach thie goal. Zoology, for exaiiiple, you need to identifV the various aninials thiat
61
occur throughout the Scriptures. You must know their habits else the name of an animal does not impart
to you thie hidden meaning that has some connection with the habit and action of such animal.
Geo~aphiy you need too. In 1001 Nights, you find right in die first story die niention of Asiatic places,
which indicate the place where the story treats. In the footnote which the honorable translator has
underneath in my volume says: “From this we can see how little geographic aiid historical knowledge
the writer of these stories must have had, whien lie permitted a Persian ruler to be master of ffidia and
China.” Had lie not made this statement in a footnote, I would have dioughit much more of him. You do
not need the beautiful maps joined to Bibles wherein the various places of the Zodiac are put into
Palestine, but use maps showing thie world and thie cities around the year 1400. But you must know in
which country they are located and not like I reniember back in 1914 when die war started that a New
York paper put the island of Heligoland into the Pacific Ocean and it is still there as far as they are
concerned since they never corrected that error.
You need ancient history because most of it must be astrologically interpreted. You need
physics to learn about motion in general, particularly the parts called mechanics and optics. Chemistry
is important to know so that you recognize the fact that certain atoms join together and others just
simply won’t join. Astronomical laws have to be known like ABC because on planetary motion
everything is built. You will not be able to understand astronomy unless you know madieniatics, which
in itself contains several branches. Languages as many as possible should be mastered so that the
relationship of the words of the various languages can be compared. Botany we must not forget either.
There are hundreds and hundreds of frees and flowers, shrubs and perenniattloixverssnentioned.each for
a purpose of its own. Beware if you don’t know what kind of grass barley is!
I recall back some 28 years, when Sepp Mueller, my school chum and myself tried to master the
shift of consonants while studying original medieval German texts. Three ancient texts have so little
relation to the present Gernian language diat the average Gernian cannot understand a word of the
meaning of a sentence contained therein. We may compare this to medieval English or French, of
which I had occasionally used certain texts already too.
We learned that certain consonants became subject to a change within a word, so that p became
an f, t turned into s, s turned into an r, f became a v. k became ch. This change happened around the
year 600. This way, out of lepel became Loeffel, from water became Wasser, from laten, we obtained
lassen, fater gave Vater, etc.
You
reaching relation widi
may ask: what has that got to do with markets? It has a very fai
movements of all markets, because I am going to prove in a round-about way that to figure markets we
have to enter fields that on the surface have no connection at all.
As stated in the last issue, the Bible, the Jewish Scriptures, the Oriental Tales and all the other
writings of this sort are witings to explain the Laws of Motion of everything. I now discovered the
final and biggest thing: The Oriental Tales without exceptions are a product of Southern Germany and
“made in Germany” produced somewhere in Upper Bavaria, around Wasserburg or Wessobrunn, and
never have seen Arabia. Yes. laugh that off! How can a nian get such nionstrous ideas into his niind?
We may understand it somewhat when we know that they produce the most wonderful Cannibal
pictures right in the heart of Los Angeles. Someone some 500 years ago had in mind to write down the
astrological laws in a new form compared to the fonn they had been available so far. It had to be in an
exotic form, in that the subject itself is exotic esoteric, or whiatever names you might want to give it.
I have been using right along the English texts of Bibles in my research, occasionally, for
verification I used the French or the Holland Dutch Bible; I abandoned the use of the German Bible
several years ago since die translations were very poor.
If I would have used the English version of 1001 Nights I would have failed utterly. but some
three years ago Iliad boughit at an auction the complete works of 1001 Nights, 4 vol. with some 1600
pages written in German. I had never opened them, just put them away for “decoration” like others do.
62
But, when I worked on the Koran of Mohammed I found so many relations and allusions to names that
I still recalled from childhood having read about them in Oriental Tales printed for children. I took the
volumes fiom die bookshelves (good thing I didn’t dirow them out when I left die East) and began
reading the first story. The footnote mentioned above told me immediately: Ha, the smart ones belittle
the old ones. In it I found the sanie things as Mohanimed brought, only in other clothes. After going
deeper and deeper into it, the Arabian words or rather the names used to call die figures bothered me,
since some years ago Iliad taken up the study of Turkish (but dien for entirely different purposes) and
these names were not used in Turkish nor in Arabian, with but few exceptions. There was a coat again.
I began to speak out loud the names as they are spoken and pronounced in Gernian. I repeated them to
sort of make them enter niy ears. And--- In, ha, ha. They were niosdv German words. Can you beat
that? Some fellow near Munich who knew the laws must have thought up the idea to make Arabian
stories, probably knew Arabian besides or had studied Mohammed’s stories in the original text,
translated his own new stories into Arabic, “discovered” them some place as an “Arabian Original” and
dished them out as such. This fact is so clear and true that I am much surprised German speaking
scientists have not run onto it. Of course, such statement in fairness to the readers needs an explanation.
I shall give you here a few examples to show it. I will not use die Bible for illustration, but when you
realize that we have stories about die “poor” in them, it should be hint enough.
At this point we must not forget that the Turks were rulers of the entire present Balkan states
and even came up as far as Vienna. So they were neighbors to Germany and especially to southern
Germany. I have consulted several sources, which deal about die origin of 1001 Nights. All of them
have the wong conception, sorry, but it is so. Why they can entertain their ideas simply shows that they
don’t know the meaning of these stories and take them simply as children’s storybooks. However, as I
studied diem, analyzing word for word, I discovered that they couldn’t even be understood by a person,
who does not know die Gernian language dioroughily and besides has studied medieval German. The
reason is this: We have to do with actual substitute words that are purposely misspelled in German
which give sense as used in the story. Here are a few examples: (I have to quote the German text, since
in any other language it does not give the idea at all.) We find stories about a “Gries” which
word
means in English “an old man.” The right word, which “Gries” should represent is “Kreis” spelled with
K and not with G and this word means in English: “circle.” The stories treat about Zodiacal circles and
its divisions. Example No. 2: We find stories in which we have to do with “dieArmen,” in English: “the
poor.” The reading and die story deal with poor people. However. diese fellows meant: “die Arnie,” i.e,
“the arms” at the end of which we have the hands. Then they use a man by name of “Abi”; this simply
means in Bavarian slang: down. So, the cycle about which he talks is a down cycle. Later on we find a
man called “Tagleb~” this simply means: Lebtag or the duration of a movement. He also has a man
called: Mussab, “muss” means in German: it “has to” and “ab” means “down,” in other words, the cycle
must become a down cycle. Then he has, of course, the Kalif, which according to the change of
consonants (p to fl gives us: Kalb or in English: Calf; an animal we find quoted often in Scriptures and:
nieaning just die same.
In the stories we meet with two figures: Baba Mustafa and Abu Nuwas. Who were they? They
were radier important men in their time, as the stories will reveal, but, we must call them “cycles”
since: Baba Mustafa in the Bavarian dialect means: “Abi, muasstauffa” or: “when you have declined
you must ‘come up again’.” In August 1939 Baba Mustafa was working hard in the stock market.
Abu Nuwas means: “abi and neues,” i.e. “down and then a new cycle.” Therefore both stories
are giving us the rules about sharp down moves and the times of recoveiy. They are different from the
cycle called “Mussab” in which we only go down and stay down in a sidexyise niovenient siniilar to the
action of wheat in the Spring of 1936 and late Fall of 1938.
There are two sisters quoted through out the stories: Shehersad and Dinarsad. The first is
explaining a condition of a planet “before he sat down” and in Gernian it should be: “sh---ehe er sass”
63
and Dinarsad means: “die nachher sass” or in English: “the one who sat after him.”
In the stoiy of ~History of the poet with Omai” we really get the “lowdown”: It says there in the
Gernian text: “Weisst Du nichit, dass der Dichiter Worte von Dauer und dass ihire Pfeile vergiftet sind?”
in English: Don’t you know that the poets’ words are lasting and that their arrows are poisoned? Let us
now get the true meaning of this sentence by the right substitution of words: Poet means a v~iter~ i.e.
the ones who wrote the stories of 1001 Nights; “words” means “rules”; lasting means “true”; anow
means “die lines”; poisoned means: “false.” Thus we get die true meaning of diis sentence.
Don’t you know that the writers’ rules are true, but that the lines written here are false and
substituted?
In a story Prince Seifhias a Vezier called “Fares” which is nothing but die sigu of Aries, so you
also know now what a Vazier means.
Of course, our little “Ahi Baba” is but a part of the Kahif only that the K and the F are omitted.
Under the German word Schluessel is meant a “Schuessel”; die one is in English: “Key,” while
the other word means “a bowl.” Unless you substitute constantly throughout all works “bowl” xvhenever
“key” is used you do not get the correct meaning.
The word “Ur” used
so often means in German “Origin,” but this is only for the innocent
readers; they have omitted purposely the “H” since it should read: UHR or translated: clock. Which
clock did they mean? Your kitchen clock, or the Zodiac?
A fellow pops up in the Oriental Tales called: Hussein. Who is he? He is nothing
but: “Haus
ems” or: the first House.
Before I bring the copy of a footnote shown in my 1001 Nights, vol. III. page 237, I have to
bring a few explanations so that you may recognize the absurdity of the writing or explanation the
translator of the Arab stories gave to his readers “for better understanding.”
He says: “The hidian
Kingdom Bisnagar, on die Indian peninsula, had a very glorious period during die 15th Centu~ and the
princes of this state seem to have ruled nearly all of Southern India, at least the part south of the River
Kistna. Portuguese writers call it once in a while Narsinga, which was the nanie of the mightiest prince
of the country. The capitol Bisnagar was founded in the middle of the 14th Century on the border of the
Tongbruda* by two brothers who gave it the name of Vidjaynagara whereof the name Bisnagar came
later. The kingdom was destroyed in 1564 through coalition of the four Mohammedan Sultans of
Vizapur, Golkonda, Ahmednagar and Berar. After a battle, in which the hidian Prince was killed, his
capital fell into die power of the Musulmans which destroyed die entire country and divided it.”
Let us first recall the big battle that was fought in Genesis, chapter 14 shortly after the Tower of
Babel was built. Look therein who was whio. Next, we go back to medieval German: Bisnagar means:
“bis nachher~”, or after that. Vidjayanagara a German word made to sound like ffidian: Wiedernachher
or: “again after that.” The Portuguese called the place Narsinga or: nach dem singen. “after the place
called song.” We must know that only few people are adapted to sing well, the others just crow; their
planets must have a certain position so as to impart to them that talent. This place is not “Narsinga” but
just a hitde ahead of the big city nientioned above. It niust also look strange that this city was created
like the city of Rome, which “they say” was built by Romulus and Remus. Is Rome the same as
Narsinga? Couldn’t be, since one is located in hidia and the other in Italy. But how about if the writers
of ancient lore made Italy and Iiidia the same place in the Zodiac for conveniencesake? That there were
just exactly four sultans dividing the country according to the footnote must appear strange. when we
think that there are so many fours in Oriental Tales that we seemingly never know whether they mean
East, South, West and North, or: conjunction, opposition and squares, or: Ascendant, Mid-heaven,
Descendent and Nadir?Is Aaron of the Bible
the sanie as Harun
(Ahraschiid)? I did not dunk
Mohammedans used Jewish first names?
As time goes on I realize the difficulty that is facing die publisher of a magazine dealing widi
“movements.” Of course, the average magazine never runs out of stuff to produce printed matter; it is
64
different when we deal with scientific matters where the sole question arises: How can we recognize a
plus from a minus. Because, after all, we are but interested to learn or find out “does the market move
up or down” and when do die changes occur. So, all is centering on two small questions.
It is quite
clear to me now that we can frame our interests into three words: “up or down?” Since in all we know
there are small tricks behind, which, when unknown, look so intricate to the outsider that he is baffled.
When experience gradually shows the way things do not appear as complicated any more and after a
while, we feel as if we had known the tricks right along.( “Tongbnada”
-
2 brothers! since “bnada” means
brother.)
Some of you may have read pails of the Scriptures or all of it. Some may have iead now
Oriental Tales or Fairy stories. I have now found that “each such story” is one complete course of
astrology. So you can see diat die rules can be delivered quite conipactly. You have in the Oriental
Tales three stories of the Kalenders, five stories of the Barbers; they illustrate one sinole law in several
forms. The Adam and Eve story (Slavonic Text of Vitae Adae et Evae) is printed in Pseudepigrapha on
nine pages since on the eighteen pages covering the story we have two versions printed next to each
other on separate columns. Nine pages give in a concentrated form all the secrets of the Universe, if we
can read it.
Of course, to arrive at the point and to visualize that this story is one form in which Laws are
incorporated takes time and a lot of research in works of many sorts that are not leading to die solution.
One of the main causes of finding the direction was my love for old books. I always was interested in
old books and must admit that I have not bought a new book for nearly twenty years, except it were
reprints in “new clodi” of old works. I always had the feeling the people of long ago knew much niore
than we do and I am as sure as one and one is two that they really did know more than we ever will
know, although our superior sense makes us feel so far ahead of the savages that had to be cultivated.
Try the Oriental Tales first by guessing, gradually finding die meaning of one word, then of
another, until your dictionary is completely covered widi as many odier meanings as it contains words.
When doing research work bear in mind that the common verbs, such as read, write, say, talk, go, run,
walk, etc., are the most difficult to get into their actual meaning. You may fare much easier locating the
Moon and die Sun or Pharaoh or Mohianinied or Ahi Baba. ffi the last issue I gave you the possible
movements ofjust one planet and said that we have six more to use. To alleviate your anxiety Ijust say
that: go, walk, run, mean about the same, but he who goes is a certain planet and he who walks is
another and he who runs is again another, so think up a few more words that express a simihir motion to
cover the renaming planets with.
Stick to one story or version and do not jump from one into another. Work until you can’t get
any further sense out of it: then begin another, until you get into similar difficulties. Keep thus up and
rotate until you have to start again with Adani or widi Shiehierbad.
By the time ten years have gone by
you should be very close to the solution of who is Adam and Eve. You might not be able to get them to
move around at all; they might persistently stay at one and the sante place, but with a lot of imagination
you can work wonders and suddenly Mr. Adam will walk. As soon as lie does he will also speak and
that is important. Remember that first he was clay and could not walk (it says so) and then he walked
and talked at the same time. Of course, “the bone” is a hard one to solve and would leave the bone till
the very last. You might have erected your temple or your Moschee a long time already and never had a
soul to go into it or leave it because die figures are very hard to bring to a niove. Readers who have
studied astrology may think different in that they may feel that it just implies the movement of the
planet but it is not so.
FORECASTS OF MARKETS FOR OCTOBER, 1939
65
WHAT WE CAN EXPECT OF STOCKS:
Since a war was begun in Europe on September 1st. 1939 at which point Iliad an iniportant
change of trend indicated, it may appear to the average man that my forecasts won’t work any more. My
contention is: this is not so; they will work in fairly close harmony as they did before, only the
movements
should become more intensified, sharper, more volatile in thie defined time portions.
Fortunately I was able yet to bring in die September issue my article about “protecting Accounts,” so
that, when trouble started and you were wrongly committed you still could jump to the other side.
As we enter the month of October, we should find ourselves at high levels again. A reaction is
due as we enter die month; it should last to the 5th or sixdi. Then we should turn about face, run up
sharply again to new high ground, but the day after Columbus Day would lighten off again for a
reaction to the 19th or 20th. Another spurt is indicated from then on to the 25th-26th, reacting to the
30th of October. On this day would use weakness to buy back for a run-up into November.
There appear to be very fine movements in a big trading range with gradually higher levels as
objective during October. On sharp reactions or sharp run-ups followed by a sidewise movement for a
day or two without progress, a change of trend can be expected. By this I mean the dates: October 1st to
2nd, October Sthi-6di, October 13 thi-lSdi, October 2Othi-2lst, October25 thi-26di, October 3Othi-3lst.
3L GC ks
Gt&n
Corrrrt
[~
-
__
r.
7’
-4
~
mTh4ThE:
___
fl—i—-—
‘
—
‘
-,
ii-.-
I
I
•.
—
F
L
-J
~r
-4r—r—,—.•
C’
—I,
~
tilt
LZ-L
4.2
•~‘i
1C~
-‘
C
OLER
-I--]
.: .L~L4J
—-~~
A’’
.1
‘I,
I
_____
9
0
.~i
C
•~5
0Cm 00-ER
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT OF COTTON:
Cotton has come back by September 6thi (day of writing) towards the old top of July, making for
a double top. As we get into October a shim-p drop is shown for cotton in that in all probability a large
surplus of cotton will be again on hand, so that I would sell out long positions at least and only buy
back towards the end of thie monthi.
As far as thie war is concerned I have no opinion; I consider it as a phienonienon siniilar to a
drought or to a pestilence, brought about to prevent commodity prices from going to zero. Everybody
was pondering for months already how to lift commodity prices; artificial means had very little results.
Nature achieved it with one single stroke.
66
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT OF GRAINS:
The forecast for grains this nionthi is not niade the way all previous forecasts were made, but it is
made according to the findings I have taken out from Aladdin and his lamp. This is very first attempt to
put the work begun many years ago into practical application. I had to cling so far to rules obtained via
ordinary astrological laws. We soon will discover how well little Allah can work for us.
It is suggested that all readers check the performance of grains this month
whiedier they ever
traded in wheat or not, and compare it with the forecast given.
The first reaction, beginning as we enter the month October 1st, should amount to about 5
‘4 c
by October 6th; an up move is then indicated till October l9di; die number of points upward should
amount to about 19c; an irregular lower market should then begin with big volume, just below the top
in a 3’ 2
- 4c range. The last day (October 24th) should bring a break through the lows and we should
lose an extra 2c that day. The 24th
should be the loxy having lost altogether from the peak made
October 19th, 1939, about 6’ ~ c. After that a sharp rally is shown crossing the highs of October 19th
by’ ~c, reacting 4
‘4 c by the 31st of the month. This day should be a how point.
67
VOLl
No 6
Preview of Markets
for November 1939
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
68
FOOD FOR THOUGHT TAKEN FROM 1001 NIGHTS
In die story of Sinbad. just where lie begins to make his first trip it says: “A high rank is reached
according to one’s efforts. He who wants to climb up has to walk through many a night. He who desires
pearls has to dive into the depth of the Sea; only then can he acquire reputation and wealth. But he who
desires results and riches without putting all his power into operation, losesbisiifQ in wishes that never
will be fulfilled.”
Part of the stoiy of the blind Baba Abdallah: Abdallah, born in Bagdad, his parents died while
he was young and left a small fortune to him. He did not waste this money like many of his age do; he
used his efforts trying to increase it. thinking day and night on ways and means to acconiplishi the task.
He became rich so that he owned 80 camels, which he rented to caravan merchants.
One day in the midst of his fortune, wishing to become still richer than he was now, lie met a
dervish who walked towards Basrali. They talked together and had dinner. During the nieal nothing of
importance was spoken, but finally the dervish said, he knew of a place of large riches containing much
more gold and diamonds than his 80 can~els could possibly cany. He felt that the dervish wasn’t fooling
when he said it. He kissed him and said: “Good derwish, I know that you don’t pay much attention to
worldly goods; what can such knowledge do you any good? You are alone and can’t take much of it;
show me where the fortune can be found
- I shall load my SO camels and shall even make you a present
of one camel, showing thus way my appreciation, friendship and pleasure.”
This was a pretty cheap offer, but the devil of nioney madness had entered my heart as soon as
the dervish spoke of the treasure, so that I even felt I had offered him too much (1 out of 80); the 79
appeared like nothing compared to the one I offered him. The dervish didn’t mind the offer. “Brother,”
he said to me very quietly you know that the proportion of the offer is all out of gear compared to the
service I am rendering you. I wouldn’t have had to say a word about the treasure and could keep it for
myself what I told you of my own volition; you can consider this as proof that I am willing to do you
some good and to help you.” “You say,” said the derwish further, you have 80 camels. I am ready to
bring you to the treasure house and load tlieni with as much gold and precious stones as they nancanw.
However, when they are packed you have to give me half of your camels including their load; then we
shall part and each one can go his way. You see this division is fair; since, when you give me 40
camels, I procure so much money thiat you can buy a thousand others for it.
“ I couldn’t deny that the
conditions sounded reasonable. Without considering
the many riches which I could take in by
accepting, I considered the separation of half of my camels a big loss and the thought to make the
deivish rich was not at all to my liking. hi short, right in advance, I rewarded a voluntary beneficial
offer with strange feelings before ever receiving it. There was not niuchi tinie to think the situation over;
either I had to accept the offer, else I might have felt sorry all my life to have passed up the opportunity
to acquire a big fortune.
Immediately I gathered all the camels and we went together. The dervish brought me to the
place and we found much gold and precious stones. I rushed like mad at the gold heaps; the dervish,
however, picked the precious stones, being worth much more than the gold. We loaded all and had to
leave much behind for want of bags, and camels. Before we left the dervish went to some vase and took
from it a small wooden box and put it in his pocket. He closed the treasure place again die way lie had
opened it and the rock appeared as be fore. We divided the camels, 40 each. I took the first 40, the
dervish the last 40. We went back the way we canie and wanted to separate, the dervish to go to Basrah
and I to go to Bagdad. I thanked him for his thvors to have just chosen me to take part in such fortune.
After a few steps the devil entered my heart; envy took hold of me. I could not stand itheinssnfThe 40
caniels loaded with treasures. I said to myself “The dervish does not need all this fortune; he has this
treasure house constantly at his disposal and can take as much
as he wants to. I decided to get my
69
camels back together withi the treasures. I ran back toward him, made a sign, and he stopped. I said:
“Brother, you are a nice fellow, used to a quiet life withiout worldly care and you have nothing else to
do but serve God. You niay not realize what burden you take over by going away withi so many caniels.
I suggest, take but 30 of them, even this amount will cause you enough hardship.” The dervish said: “I
think you are right; you better take ten of them back.” I counted the ten carefully and put thwm to my
own camels. Having seen how easy it was to get ten camels away from the dervish my desire to get
more was heightened. histead of thanking I said: “Brother, I am worrying too much about your quiet
mode of living that I could leave you without explaining carefully that a man not used to handling such
big business is apt to worry. It would be much better if you would make me another gift like the one
you just made. You see, I ani not saying thus to benefit myself rathier to relieve you froni treniendous
worries. Let me have ten more of your camels. I can handle 100 camels as well as one.” This speech
had its effect; now I had 60 and he had but 20 camels. I should have been satisfied by now. But I was
like one who had dysentery: the more lie drinks thie more water he wants. Thus I went about to get the
balance of the camels too. Finally I got ten and finally the last ten also. I thanked him and kissed him.
All he said was: “Make good use of it, and remember, that God can take the fortune away as easy as he
bestowed it on us. I must have been blind; I was not even satisfied with the 80 camels but wanted also
the small wooden box lie had picked up from thie vase. I said: “I noticed you picked up a small box
containing a salve. What did you want to do with that? It seems worthless: it is not even worthwhile to
take that along. The salve that is in it you never will use since you, as a dervish have no use for a hair
solve The dervish said: “Here, brother, is the salve box so that nothing is missing; I want to see you
satisfied. If I still can do something else for you, just say so; I shall do just what you want.” I took the
box, opened it, examined the salve and said: “Since you do so much for me, won’t you be kind enough
to explain me what I shall do now with thus salve?” He said:
“ When you put a little bit of this salve
over your left eye, you will see all thie treasures hidden in the earth; but, if you rub the salve over your
right eye, you will become blind immediately.” I wanted to experiment myself with the wonder salve;
so I handed thw dervish the salve and said: “Put it around my left eye; you kiiow4hiatbettei than I do.” I
hardly could wait to see the results. The effect was great: “I saw immediately immense amounts of
treasures in houses. I had kept my right eye closed with my hand during all this time and since this
annoyed me after a while I said to the dervish: “Smear some salve on my right eye now. “ He said: “I
shall oblige, but remember, if you do get this salve on your right eye, you will become immediately
blind. This salve has this sort of effect and you are warned ahead of tinie.
“ I thioughit lie was fooling nie
and that some other secret was hidden behind it and said: “Brother, you are kidding.
How could it be
possible that the salve has two kinds of effect?” “You can believe me, since I never hold back thm
truth,” said the dervish. I did not bust the dervish. I insisted, believing that if the salve has the property
to make me see fortunes when applied to the left eye, it might have as effect when applied to the right
eye to make me possessor of all this vast wealth. “After having done so much good to you, brother, I
cannot decide to bring you ill fortune now,” said the derwisli. “Remember how sad it is when one loses
his eye sight and you would be sorry all your life.” But I did not stop pestering him. Finally lie applied
the salve to the right eye - immediately I became blind I cursed the derwish;
“What you said is but too
true.”
Now then, you were kind to me and all, but, don’t you know of a secret that would now give me back
my eyesight? The dervish said: “I have no such salve; the only one who could help is the almighty god;
he gave you all the wealth of which you proved unworthy; now he took it again and will hand it over to
people who are not as unworthy as you are.”
Try and figure this out; several readings niay be necessary to grasp piece by piece, thie latter part
is very enlightening in that it means: Baba Abdallali didn’t see the big burst coming such is we had in
1929 in October. He must have bought thw last moment when US Steel hit 26114
70
LET’S HAVE THE TRUTH
PART III
Thijl IJilenspiegel and Lamme Goedzak, a book dealing with conditions in Flanders around the
years 1530-1590, is anothier Law Book dealing withi motions of the Universe. It is called thie Fleniishi
Bible. Incidentally I ran across it in my library when I was looking up the Crusades of the Middle Ages
of which there were seven, the sanw as there are 7 Heavens and 7 Earths according to thw Scriptures.
These Crusades “smell” very much like “Complete works of how to figure events due to come.”
Unfortunately I have no old book available, as yet, thiat would give thie 7 Crusades in one story. The
new works of present day historians won’t help any since the wording has been changed and in the
wording and the exact joining of thoughts only can the laws be recognized
Anyhow, in my desperation
to check up on thie Crusades I canie across a 5 volunie set, “History of thie City of
Frankfurt on Main. I
saw therein that 1 Frankfort up to around 1300 was a village like Carmel, that no historic data of any
consequence are available prior to
the year 1320; besides, there was a note saying thnt die people of
that time liked to live singly and not together in cities, which accounts for the lack of cities. The
Encyclopedia says that in the first Crusade 400.000 men, led by kings were taken down to thie Holy
Land to clean it out of Unbehievers. The Crusades were supposed to have started in 1095, when Pope
Urban II held a council at Clermont. They are supposed to have ended with the fall of Acca in 1291,
lasting therefore 196 years. We find Crusades niade by thie English King, by the French king, by the
German king; even the Dutch king xvent down. Italy and Spain belonged at that time to Germany or
Germany belonged to Spain or Italy.
I personally believe that there never were any Crusades but the initiated used this sort of idea to
explain thieir laws of motions. The same applies to thie story of Tliijl Uilenspiegel. It is all invention
pure and simple as a cover for what they actually have to say--another 1001 Nights. What makes me
feel bad now is the idea that in my school days we spent nearly a year learning alt abuutthic Crusades in
the history class I
Let us analyze Thijl Uilenspiegel roughly. He is a roamer going from placeAo place (in all the
Scriptures we have thwm). He committed a sin and had to go to Rome to be absolved of it. Afterwards
he comes back to Flanders and fries to rid that country of Spanish rule, of the Inquisition and of
Catholic influence. He has a companion, Lamme, who is his double; the latter is fat, Uilenspiegel is thin
and tall. They crack jokes everywhere. These jokes are “the laws; they believe him to be crazy; at times
they don’t know that he is fooling them right and left. In my German text is found a lot of Dutch words
and sentences, also French and Latin, things which just cannot be translated. The writer was seemingly
German who knew Dutch perfectly. Although using the Dutch language throughout, his mind runs in
German and not in Dutch. One joke shows it clearly asid many others too numerous to relate do the
same.
When we read the sentence about the place where Lamme, one of thie figures of the stoiy, lives
(vol.1, page 103 my edition), it says: “They came to the house of Lamme who lived at the Pont-des-
Arches.” For the reader this should mean “Bridge of the Arcs,” but in French there is no word which is
called in singular “Arche” or in plural “Arches;” however, there is a German word pronounced the
French way thiat covers thie actual nieaning, especially if we call the French word “Pont” (bridge) merely
“the point” or “the center”
Catch on? (Please apply this also to the Ark of Noah and you’ll get
places.) So his friend Lan~me, which is nothing but the “Lamb” of the Scriptures and “lame” (lahm in
German), lives at a rather dark and strange place, especially, since in the next sentence it says: “a one-
eyed maid opened the door. “You see, in astrology all sorts of places have to be treated, explained and
used. He actually was locating at that time the November 13th low of 1929. He knew about that low
nearly 400 years ago.
71
Uilenspiegel, the coal-dealer’s son, without schooling, using thie language as he does, fitting idea
to idea, jumping from one top to the next bottom and to thie top again, going through gardens and rivers,
into castles and inns is following so closely die 1001 Arabian stories in action and effect that only a
blind man fails to see this. He is always in need of an assistant, Lamme, else, he can’t act right. The
same phenomenon we find when we aiialyze the Scriptures. The main figures always have an assistant
too. Moses needs Aaron etc.
He also says (page 90 vol.1): “What is worth less than a bursted bladder? A secret given out.”
This same rule is mentioned often in the Scriptures, also the 1001 Night storiea
As thie story runs on we find a “ rosary of bottles” the same as we find thie ghosts in Oriental
Tales quite often bottled up. Heavens, I ani giving you hints enough
now to discover the basis of
astrological laws. I am repeating and repeating to make you see. Can’t you draw some of those bottles
and recognize them as a typical movement? Can’t you see the Church now where Uilenspiegeh is carried
into and gets baptized six times; can’t you see the father and the mothier standing straight up in front of
the bowl with the big hole and the mason at the ceiling who pours down the water?
This Uilenspiegel
story being one single continued
story, which contains
the necessary
astrological laws, appears to me easier to understand than all the othiers. It seems to be one of the most
recent ones incorporating all the laws. There were many sniart people in tinies past who had it over all
of us; when they once knew the laws of Nature all they did for pastime was to think up stories and work
into them the laws with proper substitutions. I waiit to retract at this time a statement made previously,
saying that I consider it very difficult to write stories of that kind that fit the laws. I believe now it can
be easily done when the laws are once fully known. Since he who knows will never deviate from the
truth, he will frame his words and sentences constantly alike when ex- pressing one and the same idea.
I now can understand much better why such lovely sweet stories could be written; all stories
explain effects of planets. All stories begin at one and die sanie point and run through one coniplete
cycle until it starts to repeat once more at the point of beginning. The laws applying the same way in
each sub-cycle, it is but a matter of changing persons, surroundings, subjects;
in that rivers and
mountains men and women baths, beards, eyes and ears are available anywhere, they have no difficulty
to use them in the stories and make things sound true and logical.
It appears to me as if 1001 Nights and Thijl Uilenspiegel are easy Grammars to work into the
subject. The Taimud is the book of Syitax, the coiTect book of exact rules and of its exceptions. The
pseudepigraphiic works are essays of various sorts and die Scriptures are the regular, approved
handbooks.
I wish to mention in reference to 1001 Nights, that the 4th vol. of my edition must have been
written by entirely different persons than the first three volumes. The arrangement of thoughts, the
expressions are completely different than in the former portions. The same I noticed several years ago
in the Bible; I could follow the drift of things fairly well then until I reached the Kings; of Jeremiah I
could not translate one word. These parts must have been written by entirely different people whose
thoughts did not react on niy oxm astral body favorably.
Thijl Uilenspiegel is actually a Dutch or Flemish work and if you should try to study it, obtain a
Dutch dictionary for exaniination of words given in original Dutch, which casinot be given in aiiothier
language. Since Dutch was one of my first languages to master, I had no difticulty to pick up quickly
the underlying idea of given Dutch words-—as stated long ago, it is all a matter of substitution, not only
in ideas such as “father” being equal to “courage, “ but in the shading of the words itself For example I
may say: “the sap begins its flow at the root of the tree; however, the saps in the stock market begin to
buy at die top of thie tree. “ Changing this for illustration’ s sake, I may say: “Saps begin to floxv on bothi
ends of the nut tree.” If you would find such a sentence in a story you would quickly say: “there is a
mistake somewhere,” and keep on reading your story as long as the stoiy continues giving a fair sense.
But, a lot of valuable information is contained in this apparently twisted sentence.
72
All the works heated right along are made up of sentences and substitutes like tht one modeled
above as an illustration for you.
I have not read an English version of Tliijl Uilenspiegel. If you do hunt for one, take a coniplete
edition and use an original issue. It may be printed years ago or it may be a recent reprint of an old text
as long as it is a good translation. No use expecting you to learn now quickly Holland Dutch, since last
month you might have started on medieval German. By this sentence I just wish to bring forth die idea
what fields have to be entered and entered in a hurry, getting away from thiouglits of India and Mecca
and walk along with Uilenspiegel through Flemish villages and live with thoughts and ideas of the
Flemish people which fortunately I had done many years ago.
This is as far as I can go, else “die bladder might burst” I have given you in thiese six issues
enough material on hand to continue. Bible,
1001 Nights, Thijl Uilenspiegel.
and other subjects
pertaining to show the way to truth are not going to be touched any more from now on. This is the end
and it is 72 pages, the same as Time Factors” had 72 pages without knowing at that time the reason why
it required 72 pages. I do now.
To clear out the remnants of “Time Factors,” 7 Lessons in Astrology, and of “Bible Lessons,”
they’ll go for the next 30 days for $5.00 a copy if they don’t go, they’ll go to the Pont-des-Arches to
Lanime. None will be available after thiat tinie.
No renewal for expired subscriptions to Preview is solicited nor accepted.
WE LIVE IN A FUNNY WORLD
In the Septembei issue I said something about people trying to be moie than they ieally are (girl
with polished nails, applicant applying for a. job).
We have many other cases where this is shown well.
Take the moving pictures. Pictures of royal scenes, of cannibal life made right in the heart of
Los Angeles, Cahif, make the movie fans weep for joy, cry for pity about the nian who is in danger.
They are carried in their minds way off from their own trodden path, from their normal planetary
movement into a planetary movement which is not their own, but which belongs to somebody else.
Theatres are the same type of make belief
Once I went to see Aida in the New York
Hippodrome. This is what I lived though. First of all, Aida being an Egyptian piece does not very well
fit into our present life. So while going over to see it I made up my mind to think strictly of pyramids,
ancient Pharaohs, mummies, tombs, etc. When the curtain rose I saw an “Egyptian Room” whose walls
were of painted cloth, the wind fiom back stage blew die walls and sort of “inflated” thieni on and ofl
things did not fit any more, the figures playing tried their best to keep their Egyptian physiognomies,
but when the first act was over I had enough. The “Make-belief’ was not even able to “make-me-
belief”
When in 1930 and 1931 we found ourselves in a major bear market, one of the New York
newspapers started a make believe campaign by printing underneath each article the following verse:
“Buy now.” “Buy now,” suggesting to the readers to take advantage of the present prices and buy
because thiings are cheap. They were rathier high thien, since we dropped headlong into an abyss. When
the abyss was reached strange to say I do not recall that this slogan was printed any more then, because
at that time people had spent their money already. They tried their best to stem the tide, but why it
didn’t work we know. The time was not ready.
Trips and travels are another sort of “make belief”
When in the summer we get away from
business, we enter temporarily a new world, we “see things” that actually do not belong to “our” world.
73
We see strange, exotic people, strange habits methods of doing things, which do not at all a~ee
with our own ideas since they belong to some other world (each nation or country we may consider as a
world of its own).
When we get back we feel some sort of relief to be back “home,” i.e. in our own world.
Everything hooks so “real” at home so actual and known that we are glad to be once more “in our own
cycle.”
In Germany, I recall, the boys after having gone thirougli school take up trade, pay a goodly sum
to be allowed to work there for three years as an apprentice. After those three wars have passed, they
become what is called a “Geselle” or one who should know the rudiments of the trade. Immediately
thereafter thiese young men take thie road, traveling through the country, working here and thiere to niake
a living. In doing so they gain experience of all sorts, how things of this trade are done here and there.
Some may stay at a place and settle; most of them however after a year or two find their way back
“home” to stay and establish themselves in business. The events that happen to them during this
traveling are talked about all their life when they sit together. Some add to the stories, others omit
certain unpleasant experiences, but they live through everything a hundred times. It is their world of
“make—belief.”
One very interesting case illustrating the gradual increase of “make belief’ a person, or persons
are subject to, which, in due time they even take as actuality or as an actual fact is this one:
Many years ago I lived in a western city. Friends lived down the block. One evening, around 6
p.m.. I went over to them to take home my wife whom I thought was visiting there. Coming up the
stairs I knocked at the door (it was an apartment house). The friend’s wife answered, “Who is there?”,
an expression I never liked to hear but which I heard there so often. That was enough. I knew if my
wife had been there she just simply would have opened the door to look who was there. Anyhow, I
quietly retreated and went hionie. My wife had been visiting sonie othier friends and had reached lionie
in the meantime.
Now here comes the “make belief” The lady, a normal, intelligent and refined type told her
husband that evening that some man came to the door and tried to get into her apartment. He
immediately got his gun ready, loaded it, so that, if need be, she could shoot it out with the intruder. He
told me all about the event the next morning but I “acted” (seemingly for your benefit now to illustrate
somethiing of great importance 25 years later) as surprised inquiring about the facts of how this
happened. That lady saw how her husband loaded the gun and gradually picked up courage, pictured
herself holding that gun and shooting at the intruder “were he to come again.”
So, that evening I went over to them, heard the story “first hand” from the lady. The stoiy had
already become bigger than the one I heard fiom her husband. The door was pushed hard, the fellow
outside demanded that she open the door and that she was going to call the police etc.. etc.
Years went by and I never revealed to them that innocently I had come to the door to look for
my wife. I had not said a word; else she would have recoguized my voice. On and off I saw them and
when thie nioment was opportune, I asked her to tell nie thie stoiy of the burglar. as she ternied the caller
for quite some time. The event was always more and more enlarged: she finally two years ago. when I
happened to visit again, said: she had to pull the trigger and he was wounded but made a get-away even
at that.
Last year I saw her again and had her tell the story. But it grew so big and she pictured herself
as such a big heroine that I had to stop it and said “Clara, dear, it was me and you didn’t know that for
fully twenty-five years.
There are niany traders in stocks or conimodities who watch a certain stock. It may be a cub.
They like it, watch it, but don’t buy it; they have the feeling it is a good stock; but this is as far as they
go. Thus cub grows in price and they see it grow, but wouldn’t buy it since it “might have a reaction.”
Finally the stock or the price of that commodity becomes a monster. It is then so big that they say: Now
74
I have to take you and thiey buy it right thiere when it has outgrown itselt i.e. when it is on the top. The
stock is so lively and vivid, so active and lovely thiat they hug it and pet it, tell others about it until---
Nature says: Clara it was but nie, or, in other words, the Tinie cycle of inflating is over; thie stock grows
“thin,” it reacts on small volume and before they realize, it is a cub again, even less than a cub--- the
water is taken out of it, the skeleton is left, thm bare value. The trader may say to the stock: How nice
and fat you were, but how thin are you now! Remember the story of Red Riding Hood and the Witch.
In this last sentence is hidden an important secret about planetary motion. Think about thie fat and lean
years of Egx’pt while you are at it!
WORTH KNOWING
There is a rule withi a certain broker (it may be a genei al rule of thie Chicago Board of Trade)
that if you buy single lots of wheat, you have to sell them singly and not as full contracts. Supposing
you buy two lots today and three lots tomorrow (one hot is 1000 bushels), you cannot sell thmm as a hill
contract, although a hill contract constitutes 5000 bushels. This is what happened to a trader (B.G.) who
never touglied anythiing else but wheat up to the time where thie case happened. After suggesting to him
about eight weeks ago to buy some cotton, he calls up his broker, to buy five lots of cotton.
Unfortunately his regular customers’ man was not there when the call came in, the one next to him took
the order without bothiering about the size of his account which runs around $1200.00. Thus nian rushed
over to place the order, it was executed and everything was hunky-dory until the next morning the
uninitiated cotton trader got a margin call for $1700.00.
Cotton unfortunately sold off some ten points
during that day and lie had bought five hill contracts of that cotton, since there are no single lots of
cotton traded. The margin required for thus amount was $2500.00 and, since cotton did sell off ten
points besides, the margin clerk felt like he should rub it in good and well to him for having the nerve to
buy that much cotton with such little margin.
This was an accident and not one of thie so-called “chance plays” when you can once in a while
get the best of the margin clerk for a few hours.
Watch what you buy and know what the trading units are.
CONCLUSIONS DRAWN FROM RESEARCH MADE
DURING THE SUMMER OF 1939
1.
The movements of markets are subject to planetary motions only, so that propaganda, one way
or the other, restrictions one way or the other, wars, droughts, pestilence which, in themselves
are nothing but the effects of planetary motions, wheels within wheels, influence markets only
the way Nature requires it.
2.
We, ourselves have nothing to say about it.
3.
Our lives are but one card of a serves of many decks.
4.
Motions cannot be controlled, but they can be figured the way they are due to come and to
develop.
5.
The laws of how to figure movements of any particular think alive, are contained in hundreds of
ancient works, such as the Bible, the Myths, the Fabled 1001 Nights, Decanieron, the Egyptian
“Book of thie Dead,” the Talmud and Al Koran.
6.
The way these books have been worked up they appear as innocent so called religious books. It
75
is said they are “open books” and therefore they can be understood if one takes off thie veil.
7.
My conclusion from the research made so far points toward the following: All these works were
“Made in Ger nian)4’ between die years 800 and 1 500 or even a little later. The flmndaniental
laws might have been known by ancient nations possibly 1000 or more years-be ibrey but onhyat
thw above given period have they been put into story forms.
8.
Common methods of astrology never get anyone towards the solution. Ali Baba says inihe story
of the 40 Thieves:
“Their (the traders) methods were used to make profits, but for such
undertakings (of solving the puzzle of motion), one has to approach it in a clever and strange
way.
9.
Ahi Baba and die 40 Thieves is die complete work of How to figure wheat niovements. At the
end of the story he says: “(Since he now understands the rules, what the actual meaning of each
word should be, what planets are meant, what type of motion is used, how the movement occurs
in the Zodiac, where the actual beginning of a cycle starts and when it HAS to repeat, etc.) Now
he doubted no more that he was the only one in the world who knew the secret of how to open
the Cavern so that the entire treasures contained
therein were completely at his disposal.” This
is quite a broad statement to make. But I can see it that way myself The v~hole story comprises
but 28 pages and contains under cover all diat is to be known about wheat prices for any time,
any year, any month or day, clearly though concisely written.
10. The idea of substituting words for othwr words so as to cover up the actual meaning sounds
strange to the average man. However, it must have been the greatest art with these writers, much
greater than the actual finding of the laws. Because, when you realize it is but the question of
simple line’ s movement and they were able to write a wonderful story about it that makes you
feel like being in Fairy Land, such work is marvelous.
11. On the odier hand, die way some people feed die public diese stories and the way the public
does take them is just as marvelous and unbelievable. The joke of it all is that neither of the
parties knows what it is all about, and they never will know nor even try to know. We just find
in this condition anothier law of thie Universe.
12. When you read over the various articles produced in these six volumes of Preview, you will
notice that we covered an immense field. Most of it had to do with hidden secrets, where and
how to get a hold of them, how to tackle thiem patiently and persistently. We have not touched
on dividends, nor on car-loadings; we have not bodiered about die electric out-put for the mondi
nor
about
the
rain
of yesterday
in
the
Middle
West.
We just
simply have i~ored
EVERYTHING upon which the average trader pins his deductions and his hopes of arriving at
the conclusion: is the market a buy or a sale. If these writings have brought you only as far as to
say: the common approaches of traders to judge markets are valueless or very nearly so, then
your investnient shows big profits already. That the common way is more believable hitches on
the same laws as I give in point ii above and therefore don’t need repetitioiv
13. The writers of our texts MUST HAVE worked widi charts, not only widi one chart that of
planetary motions but with actual charts of the daily high and low prices of commodities. This is
clearly indicated and visible. They knew all about gaps up-gaps and down, gaps. They even tell
how to determine the time when they are due to come. On page 24 I explained all about
commodity charts.
14. The number of twisted German words mentioned in last month’s issue have increased greatly
during my research this past month; my reductions have proved absolutely correct since they fit
each
place wherever they repeat in stories wliedier in 1001 Nights, Bible or Midrashi, and
ALWAYS mean the same thing. Having just now the book of 1001 Nights before me, I notice
without searching for a special case right on thie opened page, vol. III, 225: The story of Ali
Baba and the 40 Thieves ends when the captain of the Thieves takes the name of Chogia
76
Husein. This “Husein” I said in the last issues, means: “Haus ems” or: “House No. 1.” The stoiy
that follows is entitled: “History of Ali Chodjah, Merchant of Bagdad.” Here we find “Chiogia,”
the captain of die Thieves widi anodier name, i.e.,“Cliodjali.” (LAUTVERSGHIEBUNG change
of consonants.) Therefore, it is but another name covering the previous one. And there are
people in this world who think them to be silly fables of the Orient.. The Mohamedanization of
the Bavarian dialect words or of medieval German words is another art these writers understood.
What fun they must have had when they wrote the stories for ifiture students. They might have
often said “Now, let’s see, how shall we say now: go and find a name for that aspect, go and find
a city for this top; but don’t go all over creation for it take one that SOUNDS believable for the
niasses.. Another one might have said; Let us call profit “salt” which I found to mean just that.
The translator of 1001 Nights from Arabian back into the original tongue. from which it grew,
says in a footnote, vol. III, page 221: “Salt indicated by the ancients the swibol of friendship
and trust (he hits that pretty well); they used it in all their offering and alliances.(Not bad ).
Beduins and Arabs of the desert considered it the symbol of trust and indicating the inviolance
of their treaties. They had greater respect of nothing but of bread and salt. If they once have
eaten withi a man (Can you see now what is meant by man?) bread and salt, it would be a terrible
crime to rob liini or his baggage or merchandise, etc. (He brings anodier 20 lines of his diouglits
to explain away the fact that salt in the Scriptures simply does mean everything but “profit.” Let
him be happy with his ideas, but we use ours, which is the true meaiiing.
15. It seems to me as if the Scriptures and similar writing never had been intended for the public;
they were not meant to be “Sacred Writings” but “Secret Writings.” They may be termed “Code
messages” for a few, and “Code messages” for all the rest. A Code message is decipherable for a
few: undecipherable for all the others and for both it is a Code Message.
16. I know diere are sonie readers who are going to follow careftilly all the suggestions niade in
these articles both for training and for personal research. I also feel sure thiatin this present era
planetary positions
are such that one or the other of the many readers will find the true
beginning and build on it. Fade-outs will occur frequently but one of these fade-outs new
phoenix-like ideas will come forth until such time as the correct substitutions have been found.
Then everything will click from Adam over to Amen.
SPEND YOUR OWN MONEY
Sonietliing happened today in Salinas, Calif. where I went widi the boss, to buy a school dress,
for the girl. The purpose of making an example of this common procedure is to convey to you certain
ideas that may be helpful in trading or in life generally.
A lot of my readers who know us from New York or those who have passed a fewliours withi us
while traveling through here this summer re call that my boss is veiy picky, exact and careful. It is hard
to put one over on her. I recognized this fact long ago. Anyhow, we went to a store to buyaAress~Sbe
had apparently figured out for a week already which kind she wanted, the price she was ready to pay,
the color, die style, die fabric and whatever things niust be considered whien one wants a certain dress.
She went to that department. went right to the individual sections to select roughly the color of the
dress, rejecting of the first batch most of them except one which she took oft looked at it and placed it
back. Then she went to the second batch, glanced at them, touched a few, picked two and laid them
aside. Then she went to the sweater section in that something must have come into her mind that
sweaters might be more appropriate. At the place she had been standing she could not see the sweater
section since it was in the far corner. She left eveiything and looked over some ten or twelve sweaters
77
and I got sick and tired from looking and went down to thie car to work on my Ali Baba, which for
safety’s sake I had taken along. I was so engrossed in my work that I did not notice that two hours had
gone by at die tinie she came and all she had bought was six stencils, which I need to make letters. The
sales girls (customers’ men) who were after her to suggest this and that, to praise this design and that
color retired in disgust because she just said “I am just hooking.” They were not headers at all, since they
could not in duce her to buy what they wanted to sell her, but she kept her own way about it and did not
buy since nodiing to her liking was available. She has her will because she knows just what she wants
and would not take “similar” for it. So she rather does without it.
When trading, you must act the same way. You must make up your mind way ahead that you
want this stock or wheat or rubber about a certain tinie, when according to your niind the price is right.
Supposing you are waiting for U. S. Steel to reach a certain price and you go to the broker to buy it;
don’t let him sell you some other stock instead. If you can’t get U. S. Steel and get it at the price you felt
was the right price, go home and do without it! This is such an important rule that I had to bring it in
picture form (like an Oriental Tale). The entire story could have been said in a few words: Spend your
own money. Most people use sales people to have them spend their money. A salesman xvlngets ainli
of a “good prospect”(my boss is a very poor prospect) can sell him evetwthing under thie sun, just like
some people sell astrological books and call dieni Oriental Tales.
DO YOU KNOW?
An egg is our number 0, the beginning of all thinks. Just check an astronomical ephemeris and
see how often important movements begin in all sorts of stocks or commodities when a planet reaches
the “egg” in declination or latitude, or even in longitude! WHAT SHOULD 1940 BRING? Forecasts
ready for stocks and wheat for 1940; get your copy now to plan ahead.
$100.00 each. The forecast is
niade in chart forni showing die expected ups and downs based on apparent repeating cycles. Forecast
for the balance of this year Included.
Order at Box 1142, Carrel, Calif
WHAT SHOULD 1940 BRING?
Forecasts ready for stocks and wheat for 1940; get your copy now to plan ahead: $100.00 each.
The
forecast is made in chart form showing die expected ups and downs based on apparent repeating cycles.
Forecast for thie balance of the year included.
Order at Box 1142, Carmel, Calif
78
FORECAST MARKET MOVEMENTS FOR NOVEMBER
WHAT STOCKS SHOULD DO:
The strength displayed in stocks during October should still be present as we enter the month.
Let us expect a continuation of die strengdi at least up to Election Day, to be niore explicit, until
November 7th. From that time I expect a sharp reaction to develop in stocks. It should not be the
beginning of a bear market but rather be an expression of thoughits about die results of the elections.
Temporary profits should therefore be accepted Election Day with a view to replace the positions
between November 15th and 20th for another spurt upward. Fast traders may want to lighten once more
on the old Thanks giving date and wait with buying stocks back until we have entered the month of
December. By Thanks giving we most likely have regained a little more than half the losses sustained
from die Election results.
In that there will be no more issues of Preview, readers whose subscriptions expire with this
issue are invited to take a subscription to my weekly analysis and, as far as I can judge, it will be well
worth the little extra expense; others, whose subscriptions have to run another six months, will be
properly taken care of either by direct refhnd, if desired, or by a suitable forecast on the 20th of the
month similar to those contained herein but without articles.
WHAT WE CAN EXPECT OF WHEAT:
The forecast of wheat for die month of November is again made with the new method, this time
I use Ali Baba and his forty Thieves. According to niy interpretation “thieves” means profit hunters.
Their captain means “the trader”; this month they should be out for a lot of thievery and they should say
on November 11th toi2th: “Sesame (wheat), open the doors,” because I expect a gap upward at that
time and a run to produce profits the balance of the month. A small reaction is shown from November
and down to the Sdi or 6th, followed by a slow conieback, whereby it should appear as if the bottoni
might drop out most any moment, but then instead of a drop we should be due for the gap and the run.
The up move should continue until the end of the month at which time would take in the sails
teniporarily for rathier wide fluctuations sidewise are indicated to lead us into thie monthi of December.
But, the last week of November should not yet become the high point for wheat and it should be
taken as a period of temporary profit taking by some of the “thieves” the way Ahi Baba calls the bull
traders.
Be it said yet, that the stories I am speaking of constandy are giving only iniportant niovenients
and not one has pointed as yet to divulge small ‘jiggles.
79
WHEAT
COTTON
V.
—~‘+~P-•-~ -
44r-’-~4
Jt~
—. law.
-Lj.-.2.~*-y&a.J....
.
-i-I
r
-r
—T
~—A
-A
W.2
4
~
I.
I—’
5
NCVC
pS B
-~J.
~Ij~
-I
_______
—i-
~
‘87’-
-4
p
t
.
1r
—U
S
0
a
1-
i--I
ILpw~.
-ffi
—P-c
-‘—--7
—
~
<~4~
-I
H7stzu.~ ~at4
~-~---~-~
5
.‘.—
2.2
NCV~
4~’?
STOCKS
80
VOLl
No 7
Preview of Markets
for December 1939
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
Si
So why should we attempt to even think of trading for day-to-day movements and of methiods
“to get wiped out in a hunw”?
WHAT WE CAN EXPECT OF COTTON.
Cotton has followed the forecast for October but in such a nanow range that it is hardly
noticeable as yet (Oct.l lthi). The month of November indicates a rise for the first ten days and a
reaction back to about die same levels as when the month
begins. However, like with stocks, the price
of cotton has moved up slowly though steadily so far this year. The stick upward made on Sept. 10th,
i939, and thie subsequent gap down thie day after (Sept. iith, i939) indicates from chart reading to me
that we should play in this zone for a while, precluding thus a drop below the Sept. 1st level as well as a
passing of the bc level in most options; I rather would consider cotton as moving in a big trading range
of two hundred points: 8.00
- iO.00 with an intermediate resistance at the 8.70 level (NY cotton and
December option is used). Action should be taken at either end for the contrary side and a gap, which
could develop on the road, can be followed immediately to the zones of resistance indicated just now. I
consider cotton moderately bullish.
INDEX
Aaron
Aesop Fables
Au Baba
Alphabet
Ark ofNoah
Auctions
Baba Abdullali’s story
Barkeeper
Bible
Calendar Changes 1582
Carlsbad Caverns
Chart Making
Chart LTses
City of Frankfurt4v{
Clara
Conclusions from research
Crusades
Lerwish
Ephemeris 1582
Egg
Fables
Food for Thought taken
from 1001 Nights
Forecast for June 1939
Forecast for July 1939
Forecast for August 1939
Forecast for September 1939
Forecast for October 1939
Forecast for November 1939
Gambling
German Language
Grain Charts
Hebrew Alphabet
Herschel
Hider
How Can A Trader Stay in Business
Kalif
58
Koran
40
Lamme Goedzak
68
Let’s Reveal the Truth
3
Make Believe
63
Margin Trading
49
Munich
61
Myths
15
Old Things
40,68
Planets’ Motions’ Various
40
Pont-des-Arches
14
Protecting Accounts
24
Pyramiding
42
Rain, when it rains it pours
63
Sinbad, the Sailor
67
Spend Your Own Money
68
Spider Web
63
Stock Market Cycle
61
Theatre
44
Thijl Uilenspiegel
70
Thousand and One Nights
40
Travels
Uhr(clock)
61
Uilenspiegel
8
We Live In a Funny World
21
Winnipeg Wheat Charts 37/39
33
Worth Knowing
46
59
71
29
57
17,18,34
2
49
10,49
27
57
iO,69
63
iO,63
66
67
41,56
51
48
43
63
37
21
14
61
70
42
3
65
63
50
66
57
63
65
7,18
67
The WEEKLY ANALYSIS, issued
each Saturday supplies a closer view
of market trends; it should assist you.
Rates: $25.00 three nionthis.
Many
opportunities for “in-between” trades
in stocks and commodities. Send your
subscription now. Box 1142 Carmel,
Calif
82
A MONTHLY PUBLICATION IN THE INTEREST OF
STOCKS AND COMMODITY TRADERS.
All statenients niade in thus publication are George Bayer’s personal opinion.
They are based upon
apparent recurnng cycles of time and price.
The forecasts given herein, while made with the utmost
care, are not guaranteed.
HAPPINESS, HEALTH AND MONEY
I have noticed in some magazines thiat they gix e the
“i eading time” for vai ious stories they
bring. I shall give you here also thie “reading time” for this special article so that you can benefit
accordingly: Please take two quiet hours for the first readings one and one-half hours for the second
reading thie day after (allowing 24 hours for thioughts) A week later read itjust once more.
The well being of people is shown in three ways, though happiness, or satisfaction, through
health and through money. They are three separate entitles the same as longitude, declination and
latitude are in space.
We can lead a veiy nice and useful life when one of these three apparent essentials is weak so to
say; we niay have hots of money and good hiealthi but little happiness with it; we niay have happiness
and plenty of health such as most hoboes possess, but be without funds: we also find cases where there
is plenty of money, as well as happiness, but poor health.
In niathematics we distinguish height, width and breadth. In bodies niany times one of these
essential parts is completely weak. Things might have height but very little of the other “virtues” as
exemplified by a needle. A thing might have width but hardly any height or breadth, such as is the case
with the leaves of the deciduous trees. The idea astrologically is simply this: Nature just could not have
a leaf of a plane tree an inch
thick, nor could the tailor use spikes to sew clothes.
In other words, to
illustrate the idea better, unless a thing (anything) has a certain longitude, latitude and declination, it
would not be thiat thing at all If the fixed star Sirius would not remain in its latitude and right ascension
it would not be the fixed star Sirius any niore. The sanie way when Venus rises in the niorning before
the Sun we call it the “Morning Star”, but. after a while when it contacts the Sun. we discard this name.
Venus then has no name for people since it can’t be seen except for the few who need this planet
constantly to figure out market movements. After a few monthis people recognize Venus again in the
sky but call it now the “Evening Scar” since it sets later than the Sun. We note therefore three “phases”
for Venus as observed by people in general. The effect of Venus upon the market in each of these three
phases is so different that it will surprise you. When a planet is near thie Sun we say: “it is burnt by the
Sun.” This is a rather clever saying. At thiat time thie Sun is so powerful in respect to thie planet Venus
that it seemingly does away with Venus and Venus is not Venus anymore, but becomes a part of the
Sun. You must have noticed many times, when the weather changes the Moon has a halo. The Sun also
has one althiough not visible to us; the study of thie effects of planets upon human beings and upon
niarkets will reveal this halo of the Sun. At the time a planet is withiin its halo I found thiat such a planet
is useless and has little or no effect; but on either side beyond the halo, it again has its effect upon
human beings as well as on stocks or commodities that it is present. The halo of the Sun is measured in
degrees, so many degrees each side of thie Sun (about l0~). See Illustration No. 10, Page ‘74.
Let us now call for illustration’s sake that Venus as morning star represents Happiness, let us
assume further that when within the halo or orb of the Sun it represents Health and as evening star
it
represents Money. hi this assumption happiness does not veiy well join up with money since they are at
opposite ends of thie Sun, but hiealthijoins bothi since it is found to be in thie middle, withiin the halo.
Were it not for the constant oscillation of the planets towards the Sun and away from the Sun,
the individuals hiving on this earthi would have absolutely no hope of ever being
83
A
-
~
40
;
Aj,~
5
~
....—
V
=.~ ~;
2
N
Extreme elongation of Venus from the Sun is about 4g0
subject to a change. But, thanks to Nature, for a while, Venus is the morning star and for another while
it is seemingly nobody and again for a little while it is the evening star.
This condition alone would make things still not veiy oscillative unless the various beings were
not born at all sorts of nioments. Sonie are born when Venus is thie evening star, othiers when Venus is
in the Sun and again others when Venus is the morning star. Those people or stocks born when Venus
is morniiug star (excludiiug for the time being that the othier 6 plauuets are also affecting us in a similar
way) will act alike and will be attracted to each other. They are chips of the same block. Births in
contrary sectors will act contrary upon each other. With this idea we can explain somewhat that a trader
buys a stock and as soon as he has done so it moves down on him; he just hias.boiightan “enemy”. I am
speaking of ~births only” at this moment. Therefore an enemy by birth will be a permanent enemy. To
illustrate thus better let us say: a person born withi Venus as Evening star who buys a stock or
commodity born at the time Venus was morning star is buying an enemy. All he can expect of such a
trade would be the wish that his Venus had plenty of longitude to feed the contrary position withi
money. W’e have iuecessarily “half—eiuemies” which would represent the adjoiniiug position, i.e. the halo
or middle position, compared to eithier outside (as morning or evening Venus.) An evening star trader
buying a stock born in the halo has to take occasionally small losses in such trade although they are not
as disastrous as those taken in morning star stocks. Only when a trader is fortunate enough to pick a
stock or commodity of his own birth will he be able to make money. This is my personal opinion. To do
so, lie either figures it out or else lie finds it out through experience. In “Time Factors” I stated several
years ago: when you take a severe loss in a stock never try to get even with that stock. You surely will
take auuother trimming. Now theiu we have an extra miiuus and oiue small minus agaiiust oiue plus; this
gives thie overweight to thie minus side. It does so for the average trader. It accounts for the constant
change of “Traders Material” if I may, for emphasis sake use this expression. The average trader who
frequents brokers offices lasts about a year under normal conditions before he has to quit. What about
your self? Ah, this is where you differ and rightly so.
84
The first virtue you possess, above all othier traders is your attempt to learn how to overcome
obstacles or deficiencies. This is why you subscribe to “Preview”. If you have any traders’ friends at
heart, you should tell and explain to them about niy work. They just don’t know of it. You have
realized, probably long ago, that business rules cannot be used as stock market rules. General leaming
such as Law, Medicine Art, etc. does not help in the least. It may hurt some readers, i~Aieniaav;my
experience with traders thiese many years has shown me that thie poorest traders are doctors and
lawyers. They are the greatest plungers I have ever known. It must have somethiing to do with their
profession, where, after a consultation the watchword is: we have to win the Case or, we have to
operate successfully and, if thiings do not come out the way it had been planned
They lack the ability
to stop in the middle of a case or of an operation (I niean a trade in the niarket) when thiev notice that
the commitment is wrong. Theyjust wouldn’t jump out when losses pile up, but they have decided right
at the time of the commitment to see it through to a profit. Let me say to them: the patient or client in
their case is the stock, which is traded. If “he” is sick don’t try to cure him by supporting him.
The mental condition of lawyers and doctors is always bullish, they want to win every case, and
they want to perform every operation successfully. This thought, in stock market terms, is expressed by
BUYING; thiey actually would not accept thie idea of “losing a case,” or a patient dying on them: Such
thought expressed in niarket terms would be SELLING. Thus thiey never think of markets thiat go down.
In the event they happen to strike a movement right very seldom do they take profits or normal profits?
Not taking profits is bad policy in the market; taking losses is often times a virtue as long as they are
small.
The second “virtue” you possess is your belief that planetary forces govern movement of stocks
and commodities. We know that astronomers figure out the exact positions of these planets froimdayAo
day and their individual motions. They are not concerned with the effect of these planets upon human
beings or upon stocks and comniodities. In fact. I have never seen an astrononiy book, which would not
contain a chapter saying in essence that people who believe stars and planets can affect us just “have a
screw lose”. If we would not believe this, and even prove it, should we want to, we could reveitbackito
earning reports and other statistics so as to buy when earnings are at the peak and sell stocks when the
corporations pass the dividends, because their earnings have dropped so lowikitthe~:ed.appears
AKLir
as
proving
that
planetary movements
affect
human
beings
into buying
and
selling stocks
or
commodities, we just take an ordinary Table of planets motions and scan some of the Eclipses formed
by Sun and Moon and look at thie effect:
(Keep this for your ov~n use!)
March 7, 1932.
Major top followed by 5 months general decline.
(Sun Eclipse) (US. Steel about 72)
August 31,1932.
Market boiling near top level. (top was September 7th, 1932).
(Sun Eclipse) (U.S. Steel 52 1/2)
February 24, 1933.
Everybody in despair.(bottom was February 27, 1933).
(Sun Eclipse) (U. S. Steel 26 1/4)
August 21, 1933.
Near the major top. (top was August 26, 1933)
(Sun Eclipse) (U. S. Steel about 72)
June 19, 1936.
Wheat at major low ( 79 7/8)
(Sun Eclipse)
June 8, 1937.
Wheat a major how (1.05)
(Sun Eclipse)
85
December 2, 1938
Liverpool wheat at major low; stocks and American wheat at major low a few
days before ( Nov. 26, 1937)
(Sun Eclipse)
May29 1933.
Wheat at major low.
(Sun Eclipse)
November 2, 1938
Stocks around peak levels.
(Sun Eclipse).
Enumerating these eclipses I have for lack of space passed up the years 1934 and 1935. I also
ignored the Eclipses with the Moon. There are usually two Sun Eclipses a year. If two eclipses of the
Sun occurring in one year bring two major changes in stocks or commodities can we find a rule in this
or shall we just say: It is a coincidence? Of course, astronomers, in their exact work would want the
effects to be: the moment an eclipse occurs, that very moment every trader should change his mind.
We however, are satisfied with but thie halo of the eclipse since we have in our ami sleeves a whole lot
of other astronomical phenomena that assist us in recognizing the approach of &nhange of trekn&
Note from thie example of eclipses, at times the mind of stock traders is affected, at other times
thie niind of wheat traders and again at other times thie niinds of bothi types of traders undergoes a
change. This does not matter as long as people change their minds. To define when one happens and
not the other would be going into the finer points of the work of research. All we want to do just now is
to show that eclipses bring about a change of mind among the traders toward wanting or not wanting
stocks or conimodities.
A few years ago I read an article wherein some professor had been checking up on people or
firms that make forecasts on market movements. He did not stipulate whether such forecasts had been
niade with thie aid of planetary niovements or whiethier thiey were made up from statistics and “outlook”.
It could not have very well been the former since you can count planetary forecasters
on your
fingertips, while the other type seems to bloom rampantly. He found thnt in the course of several years
they were
400o right in their expectations.
As
stated quite frequently,
my forecasts for minor
niovements over niany years have not been always right, but thiey weie very right for niajor movenients.
When the forecast was wrong, it was so but temporarily. For example, in the June move of 1939, my
forecast was all wet, and I have never tried to paint it any other way, but let us look at the actual facts.
We had bought wheat in March and early April 1939, stressing the idea thiat wheat accordingmThegoll
standard was actually back at the 40c level, which was the bear market how price in 1932. According to
my article about pvran~iding (page 21) we had to make the major commitment at or near the low,
decreasing the amount of additional purchases as we moved higher. The fact, as admitted by clients,
was thus: many clients did not buy or else thiey bought very little around the mid-March and early April
1939 low. They said: We will watch it. Then the up move developed suddenly so fast that before they
knew of it the price was above 76c, an advance of some I Sc. When they saw wheat at such levels things
looked good to thieni and, unfortunately thie corner of June 1st, 1939 actually became a top instead of a
gap upward. Thus the forecast strengthened their courage. Anyhow. many bought only chose to the top.
When things turned downward I said in my weekly analysis: I would hold on to wheat now since most
of it had been bought around the low (assuming this) and thie amount bought at high levels just had to
be carried down once more, since, in my years of experience I knew that the price of wheat normally is
not 60c but above $1.00 and, when the trend does reverse, it will make a faALnin eThkihidHe
who
bought in March or early April never even got into red except a few cents in the Winnipeg market, but
no trouble was experienced in Chicago at all. He who pyaniided wheat last spring according to rules
explained on page 21 could not have come into any difficulties in spite of my erroneous interpretation
of thw aspect of June 1, 1939. This summer’s work has made me find the cause of the error I add now.
86
At any time a condition similar to last May occurs again, we shall not miss the direction. I found it
listed as an extraordinary case in 1001 Nights.
Let nie bring a sniall list of tops and bottonis thiat had been located in niy work of forecasting
(old clients can verify this): the top of 1929; the exact day of the bear market low, June 2nd. 1932; the
bottom of March 1933; the exact day of thm top of July 7th, 1933 (it was thw rail top); the how of
October 1933; the top of April 21st, 1934; the exact day of the low of Sept. 17, 1934; thie March Sthi
high of 1937 for stocks and the Thanksgiving low of 1937; thie 156 level as top in November, 1938 and
the January, 28th low of 1939. All these dates were not forecast a week or so before they occurred by
accidentally defining such day top or bottom within a movement, but the June, 1932 bottom was
forecast already in January, 1932 as the niajor low of thie bear niarket; the July 7th
top, 1933 was
forecast actually during the banking crisis, 1933. The April top in 1934 was forecast when the October
21st low 1933 had been made. The subsequent years forecast dates you can find in magazine articles as
having been forecast a long time before they were due to appear. The top for thie present movement up-
wards I have for February 5th, 1940.
This work of forecasting, has been done only by using planetary movements, and nothing else.
When I look back over the years I can see with what primitive methods I started in. At the present stage
of my knowledge I hardly can believe that the forecasts could have turned outso well and to thie point.
It goes to show that any average person, with a desire to heam forecasting trends can acquire this
knowledge. The idea is but to get the right point of beginning. The trouble with most traders is that they
think some black magic has to be used for it. No doubt, there is a lot of work connected when hying to
forecast movements of individual stocks, since each one has its own habit. To forecastthwgenerah stock
trend and to heam how to do it is fairly easy. I do not use a regiment of statisticians, nor do I have a lot
of stock chants by the day, week or month the way Hotel rates run, but a simple line is all that is used.
There is another thought coniing to nie right here concerning thie professor wiio checked on the
Forecasters. To criticize something is much easier than to do it. Even though the forecasts he checked
proved to be but 40% right, I doubt veiy much whethmr or not he could have done as well.
We have been getting far off our subject: happiness, health and money. There is a large part of
mankind, which aims exclusively towards obtaining happiness, such as societies chubs and associations.
Everything that belongs to them we would therefore include into our first group, which we termed for
explanation’s sake Venus as evening staror group No. 1.
We niust include: the language thiat is spoken, the music which
entertains, the theatre and
movies, the circus, automobiles, foot ball and baseball, fights of any kind including war. This is a rather
broad field to come under one planetary heading. It goes without saying thnt a carefUl work of
dissection is required. Turned over into market language, we therefore can associate the following
groups of stocks under the heading of Evening star: moving picture stocks, automobile stocks, steel
stocks and even rails should go in here, since they supply means of transportation to the millions
looking for happiness by making trips. It also includes, rubber, silk, copper and other commodities.
The center group (group No.2) concerns health and all thie circunistances andconditions leading
to it or aiding it in a positive
or negative way.
Therefore,
we can place into this group all
pliaimaceutical stocks, also all food stocks, which latter had been enumerated already in thw first group.
Hospitals, doctors, dentists, undertakers, cemeteries, crutches, artificial limbs, walking canes, Ex-lax,
magazines explaining why one should eat three raw cabbages a day, clubs that fUrther outdoor life and
nudist colonies belong to this type. And last but not the least the food commoAitie&sugar, fruits, cocoa,
and wheat especially.
The morning star group (group No.3) as thie last one would include thie reniainder. All lines of
business that concern money such as banking. lending money. pawn brokers, credit companies, real
estate, governmental affairs (issuers of money~, belong in here. Stocks of this group include Bank
stocks, bonds, Credit company stocks, government bonds and real estate investments.
87
We can see at a glance that the majority of stocks and commodities belong to the Evening star
group. Any trader who has his Venus at the other side (as morning star) seems up against it when
reading in these itenis. Only if lie has Venus, as evening star should lie be able to niake nioney by
trading in them. In order to make money trading he would have to select stock&an&coirmnAities nfhis
own group or of the neighboring group. A trader having his Venus with the Sun would fare well trading
in wheat or other grains, also with food stocks; he would have mediocre success trading in any of the
two remaining groups, the evening star or morning star group. Such a man would never get cleaned out
completely which may happen occasionally to the others.
The morning star group has plenty of facilities to invest in stocks that have to do with money
such as bank stocks, bonds and credit conipany stocks. They also may operate in grains and be fairly
successfUl or in pharmaceutical stocks. It would be disastrous, however, for them to operate in stocks or
commodities
of the opposing group No.
3, which covers most industrial stocks
and industrial
commodities.
In newspapers we have for the past few years an index of commodity prices, where some
“clever” statistician conceived the idea to just merely add from day to day all the prices of the various
listed commodities. The result is intended for traders to be phoned to make deductions of what is due for
conimoditv prices tonioiTow and die next day. Can you now see die enor of such coniputations? That
the results expected cannot be right and usefUl? Similar stunts are done with the stock averages, but
fortunately they have not many food stocks included in the industrial list so not much harm can come of
it.
Longitude, declination and latitude are separate entities; they give best results when we are able
to use them together (the Trinity~ Let us assume now that longitude represents the “time” in the market,
declination the price and latitude the “volume” of transactions. The most important factor for trading is
the “tiniing” or, as we shall call it die longitude. When the time is right, price and vohunie are right
automatically. Therefore, I have discovered long ago that if I know the day a top or bottom is due, the
price as well as the volume will confirm. We may even go as far as saying for our crude work of
determining tops and bottoms, we only need one of these entities and not the three. Some people who
know nothing of laws of motion have the ability to “feel” a top or a bottom just by watching the volume
of transactions others “feel” a top or bottom by watching the price levels. The latter, however, must
leave some inkling as to certain price levels at which stocks and commoditieshikc to stop. This can only
be discovered when one has charts of the daily perforniance of various stocks or conimodities for a
period backwards. We can see that 52 1/2 or 67 1/2 or 72 are not merely numbers, but that they are
numbers at which major changes occur, especially so when volume and time agree also. Wejust have to
learn the knack of how to make graphs. Aside fi~om this, we must know about the law that all motions
are made in ellipses. This chapter, we shall touch in one of the next issues. It was one of my first
inventions or finds. Yet, today I use the very size of ellipse, which I made to fit a certain movement of a
stock (CTM) many years ago.
The “Timing” or longitude is the niost difficult part of all. No doubt forecasters and statisticians
also try to use timing, I but in such crude and awkward ways that it is no wonder the average trader
cannot detect their major enor in such timing. For example they use dividend dates of stocks, dates of
speeches of some important man, publication of railroad (car loadings, etc, as a criterion to expect a
change of trend. Another veiy fine wording they have around Christmas: tax-selling time. This latter
should explain away the fact that due to the Sun being the furthest away from us at the time of the
Winter solstice, this Sun and not the tax-collector makes us feel somewhat “cool” towards the stock
niarket many a year, but not all die years.
Any one of these items used by statisticians are expected to bring a change of trend has received
m~ own checking. It revealed that stocks on such dates can move up, can move down and can merely
move sidewise. When the market moves up they say this was not anticipated; when the market moves
88
down they say: it had been discounted: when we move sidewise they say it had no effect. Any baby can
do that. But to say at this time (October 29, 1939) that next Februa~ 5th, 1940 stocks should be found
at an important peak possibly the peak~for 1940, would be a forecast. If this comes true, would this be a
guess or a correct deduction of how planetary movements affect human beings towards desiring to own
stocks? If I further anticipate and say that my work indicates thereafter a return to approximately the old
120 level of Dow Jones and even could quote the date as Thanksgiving 1940, would this be a rough
guess? But enough of this.
Longitude, as stated before, does not fix the exact place of a planet; it does very nearly so since
declination defines only the distance of die planet from the Equator, north or south of it and latitude
defines its distance from the Ecliptic north or south. (See Illustration No.11, page (79). For illustration’s
sake, let us assume xve fly in an airplane. The plane should represent a stock or a commodity. Its
longitude would be i2i~ 5540” West of Greenwich at the time it flies over Carmel, Calif.; it would be
but 730 58’ West of Greenwich when it flies over New York. Its flying height or altitude may be 100
feet or 1000 feet above the ground at various times. This particular height we shall call our declination
and latitude (the one refers us to the celestial Equator, the other to the Ecliptic). The plane can be seen
at Carmel irrespective of its height or altitude and at some other time it can be seen at New York,
subject to its monientary ahtitude.*
Declinations and latitude are therefore secondary factors while
longitude is the primary factor.
½
‘1
4
I
A
v
\~.
—
I
)
~..
Srr~M~
b-Aw
‘5k
~-
‘‘
:
/
OK
= Longitude (measured in degrees of the Zodiac) beainning at 0 a Aries (Spring Equinox~
HS
= Declination (measured in degrees north and south of Plane of Ecliptic).
KS
= Latitude (nieasured in degrees north and south of Plane of Equator).
OH = Right Ascension (measured in hours and minutes).
P
= Celestial North Pole (PP = World Axis).
P
= Pole of Ecliptic.
ABC = Plane of Ecliptic.
DEF = Plane of celestial Equator.
89
The effect of a plane while in altitude around Carmel can be ve~ noticeable in case it would be subject
to a forced landing. hi such a case New York would not be the least alarmed about it, being too far
away to be affected. Parenthetically be it said however, that declination and latitude are veiy iniportant
for fine work. We are at present only demonstrating the crude laws.*
Again our car was sidetracked! Let us revert now to our title: Happiness, Health and Money.
Happiness is the prime motive of life; health and money would therefore appear to be but an adjunct to
it. Just size up the situation carefully for a moment and judge whether it is not so. We have to have
some health, else we could not live; we have to have some money to supply us with health (food) and to
sustain happiness, the prime motive. When one is in dire straights, it is surprising with what little
nioney lie can get along nicely! If one is sick or even bed-ridden how happy is lie, ~iien a friend drops
in, or when he gets but a word of solace. How miserable, on the other hand, is the human being whose
happiness has been destroyed! What would he not give to have at least some happiness in life? Wars
destroy the happiness of thousands of people. Wars belong to our assumed group No-h, thicevening star
group. Here is the question now: which group will be most affected by a war according to our
deductions? Bankers governments, real estate of group No.3, in a lesser degree hospitals doctors and
undertakers of group No. 2, with ex change rates dropping headlong of moneys of waning nations
govemnients, whether winners or losers, suffering during the war and afterwards yet, real estate being
laid waste. Hospitals get jammed with wounded; doctors as well as undertakers work at top speed even
food commodities run aniuck. It clearly indicates that they all suffer. Let it bmundnrstoo& here that highi
prices of foodstuffs, such as wheat are detrimental to the masses although profitable to the long traders,
while the statement may appear paradoxical it is not. (Continued in Jan. Issue).
*This example is not a very scientific comparison, since latitude is again something else, but I believe it
would help to recognize the difference between longitude on one hand and declination and latitude on
the other.
TOPS, BOTTOMS, GAPS.
Here we have another Trinity; tops. bottoms and gaps. From your obse~atory between the soft
cushions of a broker’s easy chair watch them how they develop and grow!
Bottonis can be recognized in several ways. We distinguish different types of bottoms. Each
stock and each commodity has a habit of making one or two types of bottoms. Never another type of
bottom will be made except the one intended by nature for each stock and eachcornmodi&
Usually, after an important top has been made and everybody has bought a fill load, traders
begin to look at one another; they wait to see who is willing and who has the money to push stocks
higher. Of course they have bought stocks with the idea to shove thieni off at still higher levels to
someone else, unless they bought for investment. Volume keeps up strongly: there are still a hot of
people left who are willing to pay the sanie price for thie stocks as they did, but not a higher price.
Gradually the volume decreases, especially when the price structure slips slightly. This period is of
greatest importance for traders. Watch! Beware of naiTow movements at high levels with two or three
successive days of small volume, coupled with a slight shading of prices. (See illustration No.12. page
80). This period is meant when it says in thie book “1001 Nights” in thie story of “Aladdin and his
Lanip”.
He thirew little pebbles down into the cave. It is thie Law of thie Fall. A sniall start is followed.
by an avalanche; a series of successive drops. What is the cause that brings such a sharp drop about? At
the time the pebbles are dropped, long buyers of stocks hold, look around for someone to push their
stocks up; short sellers find markets too strong just then to dare to sell theni short. The “pebble
dropping period” is a sort of re-adjustment period when little trading is done---- some sort of “quiet
90
before the storm”. The next moming, however, usually a small gap appears. A gap is a space left open
between the trading of the preceding day compared to thie trading of the present day. The opening is as
a rule very quiet, but it begins to increase shortly thiereafter when all thie traders are assembled in
session. By 10:50 am the West Coast gets the opening prices over the radio.
I
I
I!
-.3,
-t
r
I;
II
1%
I,—.
j,J
ii]
U
El
I
I’
(Jf
I
Ill,
~ ~t
I
‘V
Typical top and bottom formation, showiuig the 10 days arc mid the various gapa
Such a formation was seen during March 1939, in stocks.
This Western awakening accounts partly for the rallies and slumps at 11 o’clock noticed sofreqnentlw
Before the day is too far advanced timid traders and those who can read the hand-writing on the wall:
“Mene-tekel-upharsim”, get out quick and the latter reverse to the short side; the others keep looking
and hoping for the next run-up which doesn’t seeni to develop; instead, at closing tinie stocks are off
quite a bit. They hope for tomorrow’s rally. The next day usually a second gap downward is made,
91
which prevents long traders from getting out at the previous day’s prices, even if they had made up their
minds during the night to do so. histead of acting, they wait and watch and look, and what they expect
does not happen. Prices keep going down lull. Thus procedure keeps on until about half of die decline
that is in the making. has run its course. A period of rest for three or four days follows around this
halfway down level. Some shorts cover positions for a turn here others buy stocks since thwy had a big
re action. The volume remains small on the rally. Activity is very low. Holders of long stock from the
top consider to average now, in order to get their average price down a little. Some jump in to buy an
extra 100 shares for which a short seller isjust waiting the chance to get rid of
Then after all these little matters had been taken care ot the storm breaks out in earnest. A gap
is usually again niade downward, volume increases prices give considerably.
Thus perfomiance
continues for 4 or 5 days, lower and lower with no end in sight. But this is when buying time arrives.
The top buyers sell in disgust, novices in short selling see stocks drop headlong and also want to get a
slice of the drop for quick profits. Volume becomes enormous; the tape gets behind for 5 and more
minutes. Then is the moment to buy big bargains at your price at the market. Looking over daily high
and low charts of stocks you will find that while this tremendous turnover is in fill swing, everything
looks just black, we are reaching, looking across the performance of thie last four of five months, a place
which was formerly an important peak or an important how point. At this point or rather at this price
level something is active that prevents prices from going fhrther down. An invisible wall seems to run
through the chart here, which we shall term: a resistance level.
Many stocks are in a habit to make just one day such a low to open highier the next day. Then
they keep going upwards again without farther ado. Wheat, on the other hand, usually makes a
performance which we shall call pounding. It makes a how; one day on big volume, does the same the
next day and again the day after. The extent of the movement during the days at this bottom area may
aniount to 3c and 4c, not breaking the top nor violating die bottoni except, occasionally by 1/S or 1/4
point. Traders in wheat are prone to place stop loss orders very closely. They get the feeling that
yesterday was an important low and they have a false rule saying that this low must not be broken any
more. However, it happens thiat for one or two ticks thie price of wheat falls below the first low to pick
away all the “safety” stops, then turns mound and goes up bc. Therefore, at important turns stops are to
be kept far enough away; they are even many times unnecessary under such £ouAttinns~
When the turn upward is due, or in othier words when the bottom has been made, we usually can
figure on a ten days arc. For three of four days we have a steady rise, a day or two sideways at hiighi
levels but with small volume. Then follows a recession for the remainder of the ten days very nearly
back to thw previous original
low level, somewhat above or even a little below. This so-called
secondary bottom is really the beginning of the new movement whereas the first bottom, ten days
before was the end of the down movement. This ten days arc we may call “the hohidaV’ or the period of
re-adjustment from a declining market over a rising market. It can be compared witktkeshift cC gears
in an automobile from a reverse movement into a foreword movement. It takes a little time and,
besides,
often
tinies
die gears
will
grind
somewhat,
reftising
to enter die
contrary niovement
immediately.
A common occurrence is thie so-called end-gap After a long decline, accelerating gradually, we
pick up such enormous power downward, that people even try to sell stocks in their sleep during the
night. News at such times is also discouraging. This news encourages long holders to dumpAheirstocks
at any price the next morning. Therefore, considering, the power which keeps on working even during
the night; we cannot expect anything else but a big size gap so as to clean them all out and make this
way bottoni on heavy vohunie. Thus point we shall call “the explosion of the bomb shell”. To distinguish
between a normal gap and an end gap (the latter occurs near the bottom as well as near the peak) one
has to just watch the volume. The moment you yourself thiink after a substantial decline has occurred;
now we should really start the decline and--- you see that a gap is made of a point or so downward
92
change your mind quickly because the gap down is the end gap. Thie bottom arrives either on the veiy
same day or a day later. (See illustration No. 12).
After the ten-day arc is conipleted, we have to expect the change of trend i.e. the new niovenient to get
seriously underway upwards. After a few days of a creeping up move, the pebbles arannwihiroxvrcthe
other way. We should witness a small, apparenth~ insignificant gap upwards, telling us: here we go.
Without keeping charts you just cannot see such
a gap. As the volume gradually increases we keep
moving upward in price without much reaction. About half ways up some stagnation usually arrives,
which does not mean a come-back to the old how as so many figure, but it is rrcsting~eriodThnanothnr
shoot upward, similar to the picture we had on thie downside before. Once thus resistance, if we may call
it such has been overconie, anodier gap is ordinarily niade. Volume also increases quickly and trading
becomes heavy as we parade upward to near the actual top.
In bear markers, when we approach the verv end, the volume is unusually small I would say off
hand that any 300,000 shares fall day trading volume after substantial declines would constitute a
buPng day of headers. Recall that during June and early July 1932, stock sales amounted to 250-3COM
shares a day; last June, at the low level nearly the same volume was obtained. At this very stage
(October 29, 1939) the volume compared to the present price level is very smalisince, when we were at
the 156 level die last tiniejust about one year ago, we had 3,000,000 shares a day. Alone froni diis; we
must deduct; that while the 156 level of a year ago: became a top area from which we dropped to 120, it
should now become a bottom level in spite of the fact that we rose 35 points (H) coming up from 120.
The end of bull movements does not arrive with a daily volume of one million shares in present
markets. We can talk of top areas when three million shares or more are dealt in.
Mind you one more thing: a gap, whichever its direction, means that the power, the push, the
incentive the trend or whatever we may call the planetary urge that moves our minds towards buying
and selling, is IN THE DIRECTION OF THE GAP. So that a gap upwards nieans die tendency is
toward higher levels; a gap downward means that the tendency is towards lower levels. Even when end
gaps are made at or near extreme tops and bottoms the trend is still in the direction of the gap, but it
represents the final exhaustion and we shall call such end gaps “exhaustion gaps” as a distinguishing
mark for “in-between gaps.
Of course, much more can be said about gaps, tops and bottoms which we shall do some other
time. But for safet3/s sake have one more rule on gaps. When one is made on a certain day but closed
either during the day or within a day or two, do not consider it as one; a gap is only good and worthiyto
be called a gap when it stays open and prices move away from it quickly. Prices should not linger
around gaps after they have been made. If they do, get out for the time being with a small profit, or
even else with a small loss, but get out and wait. Some of the inactive stocks are fall of gaps. Those
stocks I have not in mind when I talk about gaps. We consider only active much traded issues so-called
leaders.
We have found that stocks make secondary bottoms usually after a period of ten days from the
actual bottoni. They also niake usually two tops at an interval of about ten days the hatter or final top
can be a little higher than the first or a little lower, which does not matter. In 1933, for example, rails
made their top on July 7th. The general market then receded slightly, came back and made the final to~
in the industrials on July 18th, 1933. I distinctly recall the strain I was under during the last three days,
from July 15th to 18th, 1933. After I had everybody short on the 7th some of the industrials peeped
through the highs by a point or so. At that time I had for local New York consumption a daily analysis.
In the issue of July i7thi, 1933, I only wrote the following sentence: “Hold your horses, we shall not
reap hazelnuts but watemiehons, if you just stay put’. Thiev did; we had shorted Dupont around 83,
covered it at 60 1/2 and went long again.
93
FORECAST OF MARKETS FOR DECEMBER 1939.
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT STOCKS TO DO:
Stocks in general should act quiet as we heave the month of November. December, as a rule, is
a rather quiet month with tax selling in predominance.
Some years even tax sellers get fairly good
prices.
This should be true this nionthi. The first four days of Deceniber should find us in a sniall
reaction that should
ie
~3
20 fl
irtrr
,
~1
SE
fl,rilr—rr.
.
_-fl
—~.——
_______________
—‘i—-
1
½
—
____________
—1——I—A
.4-.COTToN
R2 Q(~ ~..-
~ErEvzrR
3
L3
lb
4—
——-
.~4,... +
__________________
‘12
_____
4-.-——’
-r
rn77trt: sc~rtw~
LAY
—r ~Wr
.4.L4
_______________
,
5
~5
20
25
~EC
EM ~
have had its origin at Thanksgiving, but the whole movement should be more a sidewise movement,
getting ready for bigger things later on. A low for the 4th means buying back what has been temporarily
sold around Thanksgiving, especially so when the market is drifting aimlessly and as yet has not made
up its niind where to go. However, the niovement indicated is upward. A spurt after die 4di should be
arrested again by the 7th, producing a sidewise movement from this date over to the 14th. another
typical December lull, but my estimation is thiat instead of selling out for thie sidewise movement it
94
would be better to just hold on, unless we are actually sitting at the Board and are hying to chisel a
point or so in active leading stocks. After this is over, the stage should be set for another advance,
steady and strong to new highs so that by December 19th, the high for the year 1939 should be reached.
In the type of market we are having since the War had started, new high territories, whenever reached
were followed by an attempt to distribute stocks. This sort of thing should also become evident right
after the 19th of the monthi. The price movement should hold just a little below the peak level. The
gradual up move, which should have had its inception die middle of November 1939, should be but a
continuation of this movement, giving us a climax between December 19th anff27th_ I 9X9
Holders of a sizable line of stocks should lighten off some stocks on the l9thi, and the rest
during the next few days following and reniain neutral in anticipation of a reaction after we get into the
New Year. The high levels, as said before, should prevail at high volume from Decemher 19th over to
around the 27th, allowing enough time to dispose of the line. Closer traders may even sell out
completely and take a few leaders on the short side for a while into January 1940.
The actual forecast with which I gauge stocks indicates a reaction to January lSth,1940, of
normal size, but the wheat forecast, which is now made with the aid of Ali Baba and his Forty Thieves,
shows a sheer drop for wheat fi~om December 30th over to January 12th, a condition which
is apt to
carry over into
stocks very strongly and we do not want to be caught napping. In conclusion,
considering all these things and having a very high respect of Mr. Ali Baba_Lsayx Take your profits
just before or shortly after Christmas in all your stocks and have a clean slate over New Year.
I would also take at the same time dill short positions in active stocks, such as CN, RBC, N’, GL
GM, M, etc. which are to be covered around January 12th, 1940, and long positions resumed through
out for the grand finale of February 5th, 1940.
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT FROM WHEAT DURING DECEMBER.
The wheat market should ha~ e finally reached a temporary top the last day t~f November, after
having had a steady rise for about three weeks. This top however, should be but a resting place to give
traders a breathing spell. A reaction is indicated for thie first 7 days of the month. Should we find the
niarker at a high level at die end of November, the way my forecast indicates. dien I do suggest to take
a temporary short position in grains for the first six days. having, however, constantly an eye on your
commitments since when this reaction is over, we should develop a very wicked and strong upward
niovement that niight get many a short into Christnias distress. The preceding cycle shows a continued
run upwards without any reaction from December 7th clear up to the 30th of the month, a day we may
not forget for a long time since it has the indication of a major top from which a major reaction should
begin. I suggest to get rid of all long wheat; let someone else carry it for a while and he who wants
more, give him some wheat you do not own (sell short). A sheer drop of the 1933 July variety in stocks
and wheat which is to last a while, is shown as due. I xvould surely get busy on acting if the strengdi
expected from December 7th to December 30th has developed and when drought news or other things,
newspapers like to use for explanation of tops and bottoms, becomes acute.
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT OF COTTON.
The action of cotton for thie first half of Deceniber points to somewhat lower levels a continuation of
the drift carried over from November. As we approach mid-December. however, a spirited advance
should begin, ending the year at or near the high levels. Would therefore suggest the buying of cotton
around mid-December but would also accept profits as thie yea 1939 end.
The WEEKLY ANALYSIS, issued each Saturday supplies a closer view of market trends; it
should assist you.
95
Many opportunities for “in-between” trades in stocks and comniodities.
Send your subscription now.
Box 1142 Carmel California.
Rates: $12.50 three months.
WHAT READERS THINK
Xtown, N.J. October 29, 1939
Dear Mr. Bayer.
I have finished reading your last Preview and was left kind of bewildered because youtravek so
far back in thoughts and seem so sure diat you were there once, wherever it was.
I am hiving in such a different world where people are interested in only “to-day” and in what
they “see” and “hear” and in accumulating material things it seems to me.
I like to collect things myself hike clothes and whatever one can use, just for the fun of doing it,
finding what you want. To do this I have to trade in the market and follow the trends. I like that because
is gives me new contacts, something to think about and it takes my mind away from my house work
which I hike too, but bothi take a lot of time and energy.
To conie back to why I started to write you, I have decided to order your Astrology Lessons
now and say, before you send your Bible Lessons to “Lamme”, to the Pont-des-Arches, I might want
one later thiat I might better understand what it is all about. Am wondering where the “time” is coming
from though.
This is what I have been thinking: Since you were born in Gemini which sign is in my 11th
house, you are naturally a good adviser and a good friend to me and I know that I have been successful
since following you, even though at times I go absolutely against you with my commitments and come
out right too.
So I am sending check for $12.50 for a renewal of the weekly analysis plus $5 for the Astrology
Lessons.
Gratefully yours,
Mrs. H. T.
WHAT SHOULD 1940 BRING?
Forecasts ready for stocks and wheat for 1940; get your copy now to plan ahicath]
$25 Ofleachi.
The forecast is made in chart form showing the expected ups and downs based on apparent repeating
cycles.
Forecast for the balance of this year included. Order at: Box 1142, Carmel, Calif
96
VOLl
No S
Preview of Markets
for January, 1940
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
97
THE SUN AND MARKET MOVEMENTS
On page 75 I showed that echipses have a hot to do with movements of niarkets. There is much more
to consider yet.
Very few peophe reahize that the Sun has a motion of itsehf Not oiihy does the Sun run around the
Zodiac consuming what we cahh one year by compheting one of these rounds, but, she turns around her own
axis every 25 days 5 hiours and 38 minutes. Thie Sun has two pohes upon whiich to turn around, diese pohes
are inchined towards the Echiptic at an anghe of 70 deuees. The hongitude of the rising node of the Sun’s
Equator is 740 36 or 14.36 Gemini.
Ahh these facts were discovered through observation of the so-cahhed Sunspots. On and off we read
in newspapers that a harge quantity of Sunspots are visibhe upon the surface of the Sun which apparenthy
create great disturbances ahh around; some even went as far as chaiming that the number of Sunspots give an
indication as to the trend of die market! However, such statements may be compared to a person who
suddenhy gets a hot of piniphes in die face and thius is supposed to get sick or be sick. Thie cause of it is for
the doctor to find out.
Sunspots themsehves are eruptions at fixed phaces on the surface of the Sun. Therefore; their
apparent change on the Sun ties in with the Suns rotation and not with their own niovement. Forthis reason
we can see Sunspots move in straight hines at a time when the Sun is found in or near one of the nodes
whihe at other times this movement must appear in ehhipses. The ehhiptic forms are most pronounced March
5-7 and September 11th of each year. Thie hines are straight hines June 3-4 and December 5-6 of each year.
In othier words die sunspots’ pathi is straighit whien the earthi is in die phane of die Sun’s rotation June 3 and
December 5.
Whien I stated above thiat die Sun’s own rotation requires 25 days 5 hiours, we must not forget that
during one of these rotations the earth has ahso moved further and it takes a Sunspot an extra 46 hours to
reach actuahhy the previous point as seen from the earth. We can compare this movement with that of the
hour and minute hand of a chock. Each hour the hour hand has to move an extra 5 minutes to catch the
minute head.
Thie totah run aniounts to about 27 1/4 days.
The position anghe of the Sun’s axis changes as fohhows: 0 Jan. 4 and Juhy6.
50
West:
Jan. 15 and June 25.
100 West:
January 26 and June 14.
150 West:
February 7 and June 2.
200 West:
February 22 and May 18.
230 27’ West:
March 7 and May 5 (same as earth).
250 West:
March 18 and Aprih 25.
26~ 20’ West:
Aprih 4-5 (extreme)
~0 East:
December24 and Juhy 17.
100 East:
December 15 and Juhy 29.
150 East:
December 5 andAugust 11.
200 East:
November 19 And August 27.
0
23
27’ East:
Nov. 7 and Sept. 11 (same as earth)
250 East:
October 29 and September 21
260 20’ East:
October 10-11(extreme).
98
The Sun has therefore a sort of a tihting motion on each side of its Northi Pohe, extending to 260 20’
the extreme possibihity East as wehh as West (See Ihhustrafion No13).
Whien you hook over diese dates and chieck tops and bottonis of stocks and comniodities, no doubt
you wihh notice that they ahh form major as wehh as minor turning points; in short, days when to expect a
change of trend.
Let us go deeper into this subject, by making tabhes. The first one gives the series of the true Sun
motion; die second gives thie series of thie synodic motion. We merehy add up thie duration of thie rounds.
Time require
For making
Circuit
TRUE
25 35
50 70
76,05
101,40
12675
152,60
1 77,45
202,8 0
228,15
253,50
278, 85
3 05, 10
3 30,45
TABLE No. 14
SUN CYCLES
Sun turning around its own axis.
Turns which xve
shall call
DAYS
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
13 1/4
355 80
14
Total: 14 units
Thie synodic revohution hess
or:
27,28 days
From hour hand
back to the hour
hand
SYNODIC
27,28
54,56
8 1,84
109 12
136.40
163,68
190,96
218,24
245 52
272,80
300,08
32 7,36
354.64
+1/4
360
Total: 131/4units.
thie true revohution gives die actuah rotation differentiah,
-25.35 days
=
1,93 days
Taking one hahf of this vahue to estabhish a mean between true and synodic motion we get:
1,93 : 2
= 0,96.
This vahue we add to the true revohution and obtain:
25,35 days
+
0,96 days
= 26,21 days.
which, without exphaining the reason for the adjustment I am going to make:. 2<25 days
The purpose of ahh this work is to anive at vahues that wouhd ahso define price hevehs of stocks. After
hong triahs in thus direction (made according to my records on January 20thi, 1935),
I divided diis vahue
(26,25) by 24 to estabhish an “hour” system. The unit obtained was:
1,09375 or, to make it a hitthe more
simphe, we used: 1,094 as the unit. This unit becomes especiahhy vahuabhe when four (4) of them are used
99
and we shahh soon discover thiat my 8 3/4 haw found many years ago as exphained in “Time Factors” has this
haw as the basis.
TABLE NO. 15
Unit is 1,094(made from Sun’s rotation).
1
1094
2
2188
3
3282
4
4376
5
5470
6
6564
7
7658
8
8750
9
9844
10
10938
11
12032
12
13126
13
14220
14
15314
15
16408
16
17500
17
18594
18
19688
19
20782
20
21876
21
23970
22
24064
23
25158
24
26250
25
27350
26
28444
27
29538
28
30632
29
31726
30
32820
31
33914
32
35000
33
36094
34
37188
35
38282
36
39376
37
40470
38
41564
39
42658
40
43750
41
44844
42
45938
43
47032
44
48126
45
49220
46
50314
47
51408
48
52512
49
53904
50
54698
51
55792
52
56886
53
57980
54
59074
55
60168
56
61262
57
62356
58
63450
59
64544
60
65638
61
66732
62
67826
63
68920
64
70014
65
71094
66
72186
67
73280
68
74374
69
75468
70
76562
71
77656
72
78768
73
79862
74
80956
75
82050
76
83144
77
84238
78
85332
79
86426
80
87500
81
88564
82
89688
83
90782
84
91876
85
92970
86
94064
87
95158
88
96250
89
97344
90
98438
91
99532
92
100626
93
101720
94
102814
95
103908
96
105024
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
106118
107212
108306
109400
110494
111588
112682
113776
114870
115964
117058
118152
119246
120340
121434
122528
123622
124716
125810
126904
127998
129092
130186
131280
100
N •J~ ~g4?~
3—
A-
-7
/
A>-..
Th~e
/
-1
K
/
- jij~~~
4,
N
/
K\
-“
//
.p
~
N.
¾N
Lfl~
~
-z 0
-~ ~=\\
~
K
4.
\..
‘//
N
/
/
KN
74,~ 4~5
N
V
N’
/
7
j~
t
• ., —.
A
r>
-.-.-‘ U
“I
A
/
-A
-I.
K.
A
2
I
/
/
/
A
-A
~>CJ.-’
ik
K
I
--
I
—
I
—.——. —. .
1 :~w~ Nc.
This tabhe is harge enough to cover niost stocks traded. What is now the purpose of such a tabhe and
how can
it be used? First of ahh, knowing that
it is devehoped from the Sun’s rotation we have to use
constaiithy the Sun in its various motions, especiahhy its anghes when
it crosses on the dates given above.
The de~ees being even degrees throughout, except the 230, which is 23027 and the extreme position anghe
of 26’~ 20’, we find thiat we hiave a totah niotion of 54~ 40’ from thie extrenie East side to thie extreme West
side. This vahue shows in our Tabhe No.15, 50 Units or 50 days, (40 minutes
= 0,698 hours). This again
101
A’
—
,c.
/
S
points out that die cross cohumn 2, 26, 50, 74, 98 of Tabhe No.15 of uffliost importance, ahthough when
hooking at it haphazardhv, we do not reco~iize this fact. hi other words, whether it be in days or in price,
thiese hevehs are important for a chiange of trend.
a practicah examphe about the use of this Tabhe we check on U.S. Steeh from June to the end of
November 1939. The how was 41 1/2; which corresponds to our 38th day. The hLgh~was82 or our 75th day;
the reaction made 65 1/2 or our 60th day. The up move was 37days expressed in Tabhe days (38 to 74) (not
cahendai days). die reaction was l5days. So fiat, by using die day cohumn but substituting die cohumn withi
the decimahs, we obtain pretty good resuhts, especiahhy so when we don’t forget that it says in Revehation:
“in time and time and hahf a time the woman gets
i.e. in 2 1/2 times.
As a speciah note I wish to draw your attention to die fact thiat my Tabhe of Unit contains not onhy a
division and adjustments
to
suit our own
purpose. never mind what
the astronomers
think about us
throwing around with these vahues but, what I cahh in that Tabhe “Days” are actuahhy degrees East and West
of the Sun’s pohe, since the extreme position anghe extends to 260
15’, which equahs 26
1/4~ or 26,250.
However, what I have studied from astronomicah works such as Madher, Herscheh, Newcomb and others,
the astronomers are not any too sure of their 26020
vahue. However, we know ours is correct, since we
prove
suchi haws
via market movements which measuring
stick
is
so much more accurate
thian their
tehescope, being die absohute expression of hiow thie traders’ niind ahh over thie worhd is reacting upon anghes.
Price hevehs are nothing but momentary phanetary anghes. We know 26 1/4, 52 1/2. 78 3/4, 105, 131 1/4 are
absohute resistance points. A daihy chart of “Case Threshing Machine” over the past eight years wouhd
prove thus statement as true as two and two are four. (Make a “Case” chiart from Library records to get die
reah benefit by actuahhy seeing what
I am
tahking
about
ehse, read back what
I exphained on “Case
Threshing” in my work “Time Factors”.
The purpose of this artiche is sohehy to give you a chue as to the direction into which hiohes we have
to dig, so as to get resuhts and become abhe to nieasure extent of niovenients as wehh as time changes.
~45 you wihh note, we have not used hongitude nor dechination of the Sun, but onhy its tihting motion.
I shahh give as an additionah examphe Chrysher’s action this past summer (1939). Low was around 63; high
was around 96 and the reaction brought it back to end of November to 83.
Tabhe No. 15; Move of Chrvsher began at unit 58, ended at unit 88; advance was 30 units; het us
divide 30 by 2
‘2: we get 12 units. Deduct 12 units from the peak of 88 units: 76 Units or 83 1/8. The same
we now try with U.S. Steeh. Steeh started as the 38 unit rose to 75 unit or 37 units; 37 divide 2
‘~ equahs
chose to 15 units which was the aniount of die reaction (41 1/4 - 82- 65 1/2).
I have exphained just now the haw for strong stocks. With weak stocks we have to proceed by
expecting a reaction to 2 1/2 above measured from the how. This is hard to express in a few words, but an
ihhustration wihh quickhv show what I mean. Let us take Goodyear Tyre and use approximate prices from
recohhection since I have no Goodyear chart on hand. Low was around 18
1/2. High was about 31.
Therefore, we use units 17 to 29 or 12 units. 2 1/2 of 12 is chose to 5. histead of deducting these 5 units
fiom the highi unit (29 which is the same as the $31 price it reached) we add it to the how unit or to 17
which equahs die how price of about 18 1/2
.
17 phus 5 gives 22 as die unit. This 22 is in dohhars 24 1/8,
which it reached. Therefore, when we size up situations of individual stocks the reactions wihh show the
strength or weakness compared to the market as a whohe. You now may proceed to work up an idea hiow to
figure the new tops due to be made by using the very same tabhe the other way round!
102
ABOUT BOCACCIG’S L)ECAMERONE
Since taking Bocaccio’s Decamerone to pieces, I am hiving in Itahy.
My thoughts bring me back to
severah months spent in hovehy Sicihy Pahermo, Segesta, Trapani, on Monte Pehegini.
It’s a hong time ago, but soniehow the Itahian acquired at that tinie stihh chings to niy ears and comes
in handy right now.
Bocaccio’ s Decamerone deahs with the “Bhack Phague” which, according to the story had taken
phace in the year of our Lord 1348. Be it said, before we go any flirthier, that if we can interpret die writings
of Bocaccio, we see thiat diere never was any Bhack Phague at ahh, neithier in Fhorence nor in Itahy but die
“Fairy Tahe” is just used as an ihhustration to exphain phanetary effects, how they act in a bear market such as
we experienced fiom 1929 to 1932. The tithe of “Decamorone” couhd have just as wehh have been “Thie
troubhes of men from 1929 to 1932.”
There are severah characters in the story. As strange as it may sound to you. ahh these persons are
just one and the same person, i.e. phanet, twisted into such wonderfuh form, tahking to himsehf, wahking
around, singing, eating and drinking to his own heahdi. This work, hike ahh odiers mentioned previoushy as
wehh as hiis supposed predecessor, Dante’s “Divine Coniedy” are ahh astrohogy pure and so simphe. If once
the thread is found, the more we get into the subject. the more we are astonished about the so-cahhed
learned Chasses”.
Getting off die subject for a nioment, I wonder whiat die niathiematicians are ahh doing afler thiey are
through with their studies?, sitting down and resting on their haurehsI’, or doihey devote some time to think
about where do the numbers come from and what causes numbers. What do the astronomers do after they
quit cohhege and know alh about stars and sun and the rotation of heavenhy bodies? I am nor even speaking
about econoniists and investment counsehors who ahways hiave ready answers to exphain any sort of
phenomenon pertaining to their hines. The more we dig, the more we recognize what a hot of guessers are in
the worhd.
Thiere is a cartoon in the S. F. Buhhetin (a newspaper) ever since I have to read fiat paper. It is
just one page ahead of thie niarket shieet so I can fohhow thus cartoon as a sidehine. It depicts a nian, wiio
hooks very wise, with a graduation cap on his noodhe; sometimes they emphoy a hunting Indian in his stead.
Anyhow, this picture brings forecasts on races; which sport this section seems to take very wehh. It is the
fourth time I see him start with a cash find of $200.
He bets on his own sehections. Out of 50 bets hie
usuahhy wins 15 and hoses 35; so it is no xvonder that hiis 200 dohhars hast hum about six weeks, if thiat hong.
In fact the hast 200 he shot away in hess than three weeks. Just the same, peophe seem to hike it and fohhow it.
My opinion is that thus fehhow is stihh fairhy good at his guesses, not considering what he uses to discover
and hocate hiis winning ponies.
103
In Decamerone we find severah characters. These characters are ahh one and the same, i.e. one and
the same phanet.
In order to exphain duis
I must give you the names of diese peophe (too bad for native
Itahian scientists thiat thiey can’t deciphier thieir own chassics
There were 7 (I!) girhs:
Pampmea
Fiametta
Fihomenz
Emihia
Lauretta
Neitihe
Ehisa
There were 3(11) boys:
Pamfiho
Fihostrado
Dionco
There were 3 mahe servants:
Sieisco
Ticardo
Parmeno
There were 4 maidservants:
Misia
Stratihhia
Licisia Chimera
Here is
some aiithmetic
7 girhs
3 men servants
+3 men
+4 uirh servants
10 persons
7 servants
10
persons superior
-7
persons inferior
3 ruhers, the Trinity = 1 Unit.
Exphanation of the meaning of these words:
In the “Legends of the Jews” we find quite often “Ish”, which equahs “God”; in the Apocrypha we find
severah daughters whose name was “Isca” or “Isha” We ahso have among the 12 sons of Jacob one “Isashar”.
The one form is male, the other femahe. So that:
Esa is nothing but Eh-Isca and
Lucisia nothing but Lic-isha.
Thie Eh know from Jewish haterature means God, Ehi-Ehi.
Neo nieans new and nea is die femahe fomi for it.
Dio is the Itahian form for Deus. God.
Fiho is die Itahian word for wire a thread or as we need it a hine.
104
Fia merehv omits the “1” from the feminine form. “~Misia”, fiat’s easy to chiange the way we need it.
“Mi” means in Itahian “me”; and “sia” means “be” in the exchamation form, so that this person means: “its
but nie, can’t you see?” i.e. Panipi-nea. We know thiese ohd fehhows hiad to cover up things. Many words
have to be caught by the sound; we have Bimbo, bambino, bambini, a chihd mahe and femahe (o,a); so that
Pampinea means “the new chihd” and Pamtiho means the “bov—chihd hine”. Nov~ Tindaro shouhd mean: Tin
(tinnum in Latin), daro is “give” in Itahian or “I shahh give Tin”, vdien this name strives, i.e. nothing. Menu
reminds me of the French word “menu” i.e. smahh, so fiat Fihomena means but a “smahh hine,” and. whihe we
are at French, I just as wehh say that the isca exphained above occurs ahso in French under the fonii of “ih y
a”, there is, So what does “Ehisa” reahhy mean? (EI-Isca). About Chimera die Frenchi word “Chinese”
reveahs flue nieaning. Stratihhia and (Fib-) strada nieans the “Street” (not straighit) and a street is but a hine
(hook down from the Empire State Buihding in New York and convince yoursehf).
As you now may recognize from what I exphained here, the reah astrohogy does not bother much
about phanets, where diey are in the heaven but it produces its findings by means of hines (anguhar hines).
Which hines and what kind of hines they arel shath het you find that out. A hint to the chever is enough.
Aside of the Decarmerone Bocaccio ahso wrote: Amorous
Fiametta,
a sort of an appendix
to
Decamerone. Therein hie has some tine statements and exphanations borne of which I shahh enharge here.
Page 103:
my copy (Rarity Press NY, 1931):
“Such feigned jests and invented tales couhd not AS A TRUE MATTER be justhy set down
in divers fabuhous books.”
He means: Peophe just wouhd not behieve it anyhow if I wouhd use the nature hanguage.
Page 137:
“But why do I ahhege ohd examphes?”
He means: Whiy do I niake coniparisons wifi past performances of markets? Answer:
Because in the past performance movements is the key to the sohution.
Page 102:
“Who wouhd have behieved diat LOVE couhd have taught me such ASTROLOGY,ascient~e
more FIT FOR FINEST WITS and profound JUDGEMENT and NOT FOR A TROUBLED
MIND occupied with his fury.
He means: One phanet, cahhed LOVE was the one who showed him the road to the sohution;
phenty of flunking is necessary and astrohogy is not for a person to study whien hie or shie is
flihh of troubhes, occupied to “get himsehf out of a hohe”. In other words when you have made
big bhunders, it won’t hehp you to consuht the phanets’ aspects or positions to find out when
you wihh “get out even”...
On page 111 he brings a doubhe negation. I doubt that ahh my readers wihh caicluthis douhte negation
at the first reading (which makes the thought brought forth positive). He says: “Nor is it possibhe to
prescribe so precise a time to future things as many unwisehy behieve.” With this sentence you can very
wehh see hiow carefuhhy we hiave to anahyze word for word in any of thie sentences broughit in works of thiat
kind when we endeavor to go to the bottom of things to find the actual meaning. We must not assume
writings of this kind have been done in a hunw, just because a magazine had to get offthe press in a week,
or, as some might think errors were made due to ignorance on the part of the writer not being abhe to use
the proper hanguage. I do not want to go too far into the findings made recenthy, but words such as -and fius,
oh, but, of, to you, me, he etc., never mean what we associate with them, but something ehse, and ahwavs
the very same something ehse. As your study devehops, die righit substitute word suddenhy just fahhs into
your niouthi so to say, and it niust be hiehd fast, ehse it escapes again.
Now to the doubhe negation: it is in the words: nor and unwisehy; “nor” in this case is a negation, it
is not possibhe; “unwisehy” is a negation at heast to me. Unwise is the opposite of wise. Since an unwise
man does not think, does not care, does not bother about things, he acts in a negative way.
105
In order not to get a chiahhenge from readers, I better correct mysehfbv saying: the negation is in “to
behieve unwisehy”, instead of in “unwisehy” ahone, but it covers the idea anyhow.
Page 43: (To save space exphanations are broughit in parenthieses): “Ahthoughi thus furious passion
(trying to sohve the puzzhe of hife) troubhed my wits and duhhed ahh my senses, one onhy spark of ahh that
good and wisdom, which was host and gone (he evidenthy had ahso started from scratch, since he didn’t
understand the ohder texts, and nobody exphained them to him when he started) kindhed a prudent counseh,
and knowhedge of thus true ruhe in my smothiered and consumed hieart whichi was, thiat LOVE ONCE
DISCOVERED DOTH NEVER or very sehdom come to a happy and good END (the work in astrohogy,
once hut right never ends). The mihhion and one things induenced by LOVE have each their own cyche,
whiichi niust be figured. And fierefore, aniongst oilier profound thioughits I intended not to prefer “wihh”
(which is Zero) before “reason” (mathematics), in bringing such desires to their wished end. And though I
was truhy by divers intermediate chances greathy constrained (making a hiving probabhy), yet, so much favor
was granted me that widiout overcharging the mark, and stouthy enduring die grief (hardship due to behief a
sohution was possibhe), I passed it wehh away. And yet, in truth, the forces, ~xtich I yet have are of sufficient
power to uphohd and conserve such counseh. Because I WRITE MOST TRUE THINGS, I have in such
order set diem down, that except he, who dodi know diem (H) as wehh as I do being the “occasion” of them
ahh, “no others “, were hie OF EVER SO SHARP A WIT AND READY OF CONCEIT couhd understand
that IT WAS I. (The “I” was not Bocaccio: guess who!! (Love!). And even him I pray that, for THAT
LOVE WHICH SOMETIMES HE BEARS ME, HE wouhd conceah that which manifesting it, wouhd NOT
TURN TO HIS HONOR OR PROFIT. I endeavored with ahh dihigence and at my fittest opportunity (I
picked the very best moment astrohogicahhy possibhe to insure this work to have a permanent and harge
circuhation) by ahhuring means and I did practice fine and subthe demons trances to kindhe the young
gentheman with those coahs WITH THE WHICH I WAS ENFLAMED, and to warn him to be as wary
AND CUNNING in hiis proper affairs, as I WAS WISE AND CIRCUMSPECT IN MY ACTIONS.”
In these short hines Bocaccio says everything he knows who he is, what it is, where it is to be found,
how to approach it; he does not say how it is done. This “HE” exphains as he goes ahong.
From 1001 Nights I have a hefiover piece worth noting. It says in one story (transhated already into
market hanguage). These is no top, there is no bottom except by LOVE. (Voh. 111,9).
WHO MADE THE LATIN LANGUAGE?
Due to certain astrohogicah haws, which I have been abhe to dig out from ahh sorts of ohd texts (not
astrohogicah books in the common sense of the word), many things appear in a different hight.
Here is a haw for you. We human beings are not abhe to create anything what may be cahhed ahive or
hiving, something that wouhd have hife.
We
are onhy abhe to create dead things.
Whien they say:
We
received thie hatest creations f#om France”, fien thus expression is not quite true.
When Mr. L. Samenhof invented at Grodno, Russia the so-cahhed “Esperanto Language” or Lingoa
intemacia, he created a dead hanguage, one that is onhv artificiah and has not hife in it.
It was designed to
facihitate commerciah intercourse among nations without the necessity of hearning hahf a dozen hangnages.
In short, Samenhof intended Esperanto as a correspondence hanguage.
However, his resuhts were rather
mediocre.
I wouhd not be surprised if some readers never heard of that hanguage. The reason for its quick
death was due to the fact that Samenhof knew nothing about astrohogy, at heast not about the astrohogy that
was used by thie ancients. Whien die ancient wizards wanted to create a hanguage, thiey started at flue righit
moment and produced artificiahhy a hanguage, which was cahhed:
“Duration Incorporated”. Mihhions of
peophe use this hangnage today. It spread over ahh the earth, the same way as die Bibhe, another one of their
products. Hunianistic cohheges teach it. As said before, an artificiah hangnage is never intended to be spoken,
since speak in the Bibhe means “move”. It is onhy used for writing, to express thoughts. since ‘“writing” in
106
the Bibhe means to draw pictures (which ones?). This artificiahhy produced hanguage is LATIN. The Latin
hanguage never was spoken, neiduer by Romans nor by anybody. The French the Itahian, the German, due
Enghishi hanguages, I ani certain huave been spoken niany years prior to die time astrohogers got up thue idea
to make an astrohogicah hanguage. Up to the time of this discovery I thought and behieved what was taught
us in schooh were actuah facts. I never dreamt that they teach things about which they know hitthe about
themsehves. They teach
that Enghish, French,
Itahian, and much of German
is derived fiom the Latin
hanguage. However, it is exacthy die opposite. Thie Latin hanguage is a mixture taken from ahh sorts of
hanguuages, taken from here and there producing a hanguuage that way. The process may be compared with
the buihder of a house (ahso a dead product) who uses sand and cement wood and iron and produces a
house. Being an artificiah product, thuey couhd put thieir own nieaning into die words thiev created wiuichi is
actuahhy the case and which ought to make you understand why the words found in the Scriptures must
mean something ehse than they are supposed to stand for. If some thing is artificiah then it is artificiah good
and proper. Does a buihder put his desired stvhe into the buihding?
Why are diseases, phants, animahs, medicines etc. ahh cahhed by Latin names amnng prntassiondsimd
not by common names? Why do they even have two names; a name and a secondary name?
This has an astrohogicah reason. The main name phaces due phant disease or animah into its main
astrohogicah sector whierein “it” behongs, sinuiharhy to whiat I hiave discussed in thie hast issue as Morning Star
and Evening Star. The secondary name points out the exact phace where “it” behongs within those sectors.
(Hour hand and minute haiud of chock). Humaiu beings have ahso two names even though the smart beings
of today put their smahh phace first and the important phace as hast.. Some peophe such as princes and other
simihar types have a row of these secondary names to make sure they run on ahh four wheehs. Even cities
and vihhages have two names. China, Maine, means the vihhage of China in the state of Maine. John Nord,
means the person Johun of due famihy Nord. Now, watch the astrohogers how they used it: Carpinus betuhus;
Sahix penduha; Phhox subuhata; Augusta Vindehicoruni. Thue famihy name was used first, fohhowed by die
secondary name.
When we study modem or ancient hanguages, we use grammars to begin with. Offhand, we shouhd
think one grammar to heam French wouhd be enough for ahh Enghish speaking peophe. It may be written by a
Mr. X who knows that hanguage thoroughhy. However, just go to a book shop, or better yet to a second
hand book shop. Look over grammars that treat on French! You find them by the hundreds, some good,
others not so good. The same has happened to astrohogicah works in past times. Some are good, oduers not
so good. Thue best, as far as we can judge, is supposed to be due Bibhe, since it was sehected by a great
organization to teach the haws (even though under choak). I prefer the Talmud. The transhator of the Tahmud
into Enghish says in his preface that he couhd not thruish his ten vohumes of work with an index, because it
wouhd be too comphicated. It deahs with too many subjects (do you wonder’?). However, he carries main
chapters, such as: Sabbath. “on Oaths”, Bhessings, Day of Atonement and many others. Now, dear reader het
me tehh you what I found these captions do mean. They are nothing but subdivisions, the same as used in
grammars: Substantives, Verbs, Adverbs, and Pronouns. “Bhessings”, for examphes I have as their meaning:
“Pronouns”, their individuah nueanings and “uses”. Just hook over the Scriptures and note due inimense
quantity of pronouns used: you, he, us, ours, and them, to them, for them, at them, above them, with them
Each pronoun huas an individuah covered meaning. The best start any man couhd get who tries to sohve due
puzzhe, wouhd be to begin with attempting to sohve the meaning ofthe pronouns. This approach I know now
and wish I had known it severah years ago.
When we consider how screwy some of the Latin forms are, how artificialhy they are buiht, how
compheteh~ they are against normah hogicah thoughut, and we cannot faih to recognize that this hanguage is a
constructed hanguage and not a naturah hanguage. Thue simphest way to denuonstrate thus is to renuind you
that you can put personah pronouns, such as I. you, he. she, etc. behind the verb without making the
sentence a question. They hitched the horse the wrong way and--can ride it. The scientists of today cahh
such process “Latinism” being one of the pecuhiarities of the Latin Language. This is ihhogicah, since the
107
human mind does not work this way. Man ahways thinks of himsehf FIRST. Afterwards he thinks of what
he wants to do. “I go”. Me, my person, mvsehfl has made up my personah mind to---go. Can you reconcihe
withi hiuman nature duat he says: go I? Astrohogicahhy, yes. In astrohogy we ahways huave to do withi anguhar
distances between the phanets, or in other words, we have to do with the anguhar distance expressed in
anghes, 30 degrees, 45 degrees, 60 degrees etc. It is ahwavs measured from ONE phanet, whereby the other
phanet may be ahead or behind it; so that to get a hitthe chose to the secret, “I” is flue middhe the center whihe
“you” is ahead of duis center and “hue” is behuind this center. Thierefore, knowing constanthy due hocation of
the phanets by merehy using the correct pronoun, it is much more important tnicnnwAbeangk thaLitformed
between them. This anghe is expressed with the verb, with the righit verb, which ahwavs means the same size
anghe and no othuer size. Can you now see why in thue artificiah Latin hanguage diey couhd phace the phanet
(the personal pronoun) in front as wehh as in back?
Whihe we are at this subject I wihh show aiuother sphendid way these ancient astrohogers used to get
around difficuhties. We ahh know thuat peophe are subject to changes, at times subject to very important
changes. This is due to the change of the phanet that governs them, hike a ray now controhs the movement of
an airphane. It is ahright for scientists to have a hitthe ray direct and move airphanes at wihh, but they think it
a~Thh if a phanet wouhd make us move hike jumping jacks at its wihh. Where wouhd the human wihh come in’?
Let us connect our duoughuts withi due artiche of hast mondi (Evening and Morning Star) and say: Thue phanet
that controhs you or me has
been a Morning
star suddenhy becomes an evening star dumping for
ihhustration’s sake to the condition that first it has to get in touch with the Sun). hi that case the figures in the
Bibhe merehy change their names and be done with it. Abe was first Abram. and then became Abraham:
Sarah was first Sarai. Jack was first Jacob; then he became Israeh. This hatter’s change was so important tint
a speciah story had to be made up for it, the story of the wresthing match during the night. So that when
another “anghe” gets active with peophe, they change radicahhy. As an examphe we quote the former
president of due Stock Exchuange
whuo was chuanged into a convict;
thue
hitthe Paper Hanger, as
thue hate
Cardinah from Chicago hiked to cahh Hither, changed into the most feared Napoheon of modern times.
Something changes wheat from 60c to $1.60 and at other times from $1.60 back to 80c and it is notihe rain
in the Middhe West, or Boston hiquidation, or commission huouse sehhing. It is the phanetary force that put
Whitney into the hoosegow and Mr. Coohidge into Presidency. Another simihe that approaches chosehy the
above is the matter of marriage. A girh that gets married changes, among other conditions ahso her name.
Shue begins a new hife. Peophe say ahso thuat a girh, shorthy after she gets married ahso changes huer figure
quite a bit (I just now don’t mean thuat whuat you nuean); shue gets nuore set, huer girhish ideas, thuoughuts,
behavior, etc. change; even the body-form gets more “woman-hike”.
I now want to touch on an idea that is highhy vahued by present day astrohogers. It is cahhed the pre-
natah epoch. To me, it does not mean a thing. First of ahh have you ever thought about that in maternity
hospitah you may find in one day twenty births occurring, some of them at one and the same minute or even
second. They may be mahe or femahe. The astrohogers have the idea that some hours, what they cahh
phanetaryhours produce mahes in mahe huours and femahes in femahe hours. Humbug. It depends upon flue
parents and dueir grandparents onhy. Thue parent cyche has to create (and not of its free wihh cidier) in order
to produce at the fixed time a top or a bottom which we shahh calh mahe or femahe. Onhy for this reason can
we forecast markets, otherwise we couhd do nothing. When forecasts do not chick, something is wrong with
the cahcuhations and not with the phanets.
A chient hiving just a cat’s jump from the Mexican border wrote me the other day that some stock
market Services said recenthy that nobody couhd make a yearhv forecast on stocks or wheat. I wrote him
about flue fohhowing as an answer: These fehhows work on nothing but bhuff They know nothing about
phanetary forces, duey know stihh hess about nuarkets. Whuen duey huave to wite thueir version on whuat is about
due to happen, they stick a few heads together, each asking the other: what do you think, and what do you
think. Shahh we tehh them it goes up or shahh we say it goes down. Once decided upon flue direction fluey
buihd up their “opinions” and out they go to the wahhow the flies. The rest of the time most hikehy they go
108
after “more business”. Bayer has a funny way of doing business. His main object is to master the art of
forecasting. He does this forecasting with the craziest things a “normah” man can think oIl he uses flue
Bibhe, of ahh duings, Arabian stories, due Decanuerone, due Hebrew Tahnuud and nuany othuers. He fohhows
very chosehy the performance of the markets though. Chients come without advertising. When time for
renewah of subscriptions to his services comes around he sends out a smahh unte thatil expii:es. Why the end
of the fohhowing week flue renewah has not occurred the chient’s head is careftihhy severed and he continues
on huis Tahmud.
With this smahh artiche I give you facts, which scientists for severah hundred years have not seen or
reahized. For me it throws fluousands of books deahing wifli flue subject “Latin hanguage” righut out of flue
window. Suchi finds conue to me withiout hooking for thuem, since it does not boduer me niuchi whethuer Latin
is an artificiah hanguage or not, as hong as I can use it for my purpose and for your benefit. But, this couhd
onhy be found and recognized because I have found THE RIGHT APPROACH hast June.
So what is Homer what is the Nibehungenhied?
Whuat are ahh the books on flue hudex of the Roman
Church, prior to the year 1600? They are ahh astrohogicah grammars. Rome does not want anyone to get too
chose towards recognizing haws, but “forbidden fruit tastes best”!
Whuy do Kings in Egyptian pictures ahways carry a stick? You sohve flue meaning of that stick and
you hiave sohved due puzzhe of motion! “In due balance shuahh duey be weighied” I By the way “bahance” does
not mean “Libra” by any means.
Happiness, Health and Money
(Continued from X’h 1.7)
Thue onhy group fiat shuouhd benefit wouhd be group No 1, so fiat two fluirds of flue whuohe wouhd
suffer and one third benefit, keeping that way the eternah cyches of revohving. This condition changes, of
course, in that the penduhum is due to swing again graduahhy over to group No 2, fiwn to group No 3.
Our work and endeavor, trading markets, both in stocks and in commodities, is done with the idea
to nuake nioney to nuake it fast as safety ahhows, to take it away fi~oni othuers, whio do not know vahues at a
given time. We are not abhe to do any harm to the stock, which we buy or sehh, since the stock is one and the
same at ahh times. So is a commodity. One share of Auburn Motors was exacthy the same when it sohd at
516 and whien it sohd at 2. The Conupany is stihh due sanie i.e. thue Auburn Auto Conipany. The onhy dung
that has changed is the momentary vahue. Our business is therefore to exphoit the change of momentary
vahues as they rise and dechine. Some of you may say: why is Auburn not back with the rest at fairhy high
hevehs? Here is the answer: A stock is hike a hiuman being; it is ahso subject to the evening and morning star
thue same as we are. Thue tide must huave moved huer over from group No.1, first into group No.2. duen into
group No.3, or, to suit the previous exphanation better its Venus was an evening star but reverted into the
morning star (mourning sTh). Such conditions do not affect other motor stocks since Auburn Motors has its
own birthi nuonuent, whuichi is different fi~onu ahh othiers. Onhy in one thuing it huas a coninion interest: it shuouhd
be of group No.1. But. we know from other phenomena ofNature that such changes can occur. I read today
of a brickhayer who because a fiction writer; a New Yorker may suddenhy become a Westerner and a good
stock may suddenhy become a dog. Then another phenomenon must be considered that comes into flue
picture; some peophe die young, othuers become ohd and never give up thueir pep. Thue extraordinary pep of
AAC in its younger days was somewhat suspicious, (it was but born on May 16th, 1928). The same apphied
to Radio, which seems to be rehated to it. The underhying normah exphanation for its action is fluis: The
pubhic renuembers too wehh due huay days of Radio as wehh as thuose of AAC. Whuen the price began to
approach their pocket book, they bought these stocks “to death”; putting every hoose dohhar into it in case
they wouhd make up fiwir mind to go above 400 again. But, where the pubhic is, there is troubhe. The good
109
trader shuns issues fiat are tahked of too muchi; they shun issues that are in how brackets unhess the finah
buhh phase is just beginning. At suchi time the howhiest on the hist peep up and doubhe their price often in a
week. But beware whuen thue peak is passed! Thuey fade out as fast as an ehectric buhb can bhow out.
We get brand new ideas about trading when we understand the above exphanations. It is not the
stock that moves up and down, but it is simphy the mind of the peophe that moves the stock! Therefore, we
have to anahyze the peophe’s mind and not the stock the way statisticians are doing. Thiey hitch the horse at
thue wrong end! Thue peophe’s mind is as changeabhe as styhes. Eachi year we huave our troubhes to keep in
styhe; a stock, which is a favorite now, wihh not be one after a whihe. When it stops being a favorite, which
is shown by its activity i.e. by vohume and price fluctuation, heave its hong side ahone. It may be idhe for a
whuihe at huighi hevehs and thuen begin to prepare for a raih spin. Just duen sehh it shuort quickhy and feed shuorts
right ahong. Remember that a high priced stock has attracted a hot of good money that refuses to be
dishodged for a hong time; usuahhy this money steps out when dividends are passed or reduced. At such time
the smahher crowd takes over flue stock. But what the big peophe couhd not hohd npAh2 srnalheruncs can’t tin
either. In fact, it indicates the beginning of the reah dechine. When it is stihh hower, the odd hot traders get up
courage and they onhy step out when the stock is again ready to move up.
If you hiave traded for any hength of time, make voursehf a hist of stocks or commodities that
produced profits; make ahso one shiowing thue stocks duat broughut you hosses occasionahhy and a duird hast of
those that hurt you. Do the same with commodities. If you have not as yet traded any commodities I do
suggest that you try fiwm ahh in due time, when conditions appear opportune, at times when my weekhy
anahysis suggests the purchase of certain ones. In a year or so you shouhd have a comphete anahysis of
stocks and commodities that favor you and those. which you shouhd not use to trade in. Never try to get
even! Abandon that issue comphetehy that showed a hoss of a serious nature. I do not behieve that among my
chients we couhd find any who wouhd react negativehy on ahh stocks and on ahh commodities so that fliey
wouhd huave to take hosses in anydiing duey touchi. Thus cannot very wehh be, since due readers of nuy works
are not peophe of the poor chass, ehse they wouhd not have excess funds for investments of some sort. It is
but a mere matter of checking the situation. Suppose the right stock or commodi&(in singutarns wehh as in
phurah) is found, stick to it and exphoit it as muchi as you can. Thiere is no pity in Wahh Street. Either you win
or you hose. The odds are not against you on account of the two “virtues” mentioned in the beginning. They
wouhd be against you if you wouhd fohhow the crowds.
FORECASTS OF MARKETS FOR JANUARY 1940.
WHAT WE CAN EXPECT OF STOCKS
The sharp reaction in Januaiy, spoken of in flue hast issue, shouhd not becorneiisseriousnspictired.
Whuihe thuere is a reaction due in stocks and shuort positions are advisabhe, as we go into due month this
reaction shouhd chimax by the 8th of the month. After a smahh rahhy of a few days, an attempt shouhd be
made by traders to break through fiw hows; fliev may succeed in a few issues. Mid-January, however,
shouhd become the finah turn upwards; first show, making things appear as if we go down further, but
around the 20th of the month the market shouhd suddenhy straighten up andrnnamnck lipwarAs.<givingMsAl
rise the bahance of January. We shouhd cross the December highs and go into new high ground. Looking
just a trifle beyond January, watch February 3rd, 1940, not onhv watch it, but ahso get out of ahh stocks and
take shuort positions generahhy just whuen everydiing hooks rosy and buhhishu. Don’t het us get foohed widi good
news at that time. Ahi Baba says: I’m from Missouri
Ahi, ICahif, Aheph (first hetter of Hebrew Ahphabet).
According to my work, stocks are due to make a top Februarv 3rd, revising thereby shighthy the statement
of hast month that the 5th shouhd become top.
110
WHAT WE EXPECT OF WHEAT
Down market untih January 7th; up market the bahance of the month into February 5th. Therefore,
shorts carried over from end of December 1939 shouhd be hehd untih fiw 7th, when covering is order and
reverse to hong positions before January ll~’. These days naturahhy and automaticahhy shouhd bring vohume
on due down aside at thue expected bottom January 7-11, 1940.
Hohd thue hong whueat position into earhy
Febmary.
- k~tIfl?
-
.:~
ffit.A~
ti,4
~
I
~?•
=
__
At
_
I
.ffi
JAN
~-k Fr
5
.2
L<•
-i
‘LU__
C J,t.rzzrr
4.x hf
WHAT WE MAY EXPECT COTTON TO DO.
After a creeping but steady advance in cotton prices since Aprih 15, 1939, which amounts to 32
points at the date of writing (December 5 1939), we can expect a criticah point when we advance fuhhy 35
points on the chuart or 350 points in thue cotton price. If a gap upward is made at thus heveh (10.40 to 10.50
March New York). in this case the reaction expected in March cotton from end of December, 1939, shouhd
bring us back to fiw gap heych, 10.40 to 10.50 which couhd be reached by mid January, or anywhere
between January 8th and 20th. At this heveh and time wouhd buy back cotton and hohd it into earhv February.
Iii
VOLl
No 9
Preview of Markets
for February, 1940
by
George Bayer
P.O. Box 1142
CARMEL, CALIFORNIA
COPYRIGHT 1939, by GEORGE BAYER
Printed in U. S. A.
112
A MONTHLY PLTBLICATION IN THE INTEREST OF
STOCKS AND COMMODITY TRADERS
All statements made in this publication are George Bayci ‘s personal opinion They ale based upon apparent recurring
cycles of time and prict
The forecasts given herein, wbile made with the utmost care, are not guarantee&
ABOUT COMMISSIONS IN COMMOL)ITIES
When we trade commodities we hax e to know how many points it requires to cover the cost of
the “round trip”, i.e. the cost of buying and sehhing each one.
The points that hiave to be made on the
shuort as xvehh as on the hong side to take care of due broker first are as fohhows:
Ahh grains (wheat etc)
1/4c
Hides
10 points
Cotton (100 bale contract)
6 points
Lead and zinc 5 points
Coffee
9 points
Lard
4 points
Cocoa
9 points
Sihk
2
1 2 points
Copper
7 points
Sugar No3
3 points
Cotton seed oih
5 points
Rubber
12 points
Fhax seed
5/8 points
Wooh
.6 (6/iCc) points
Ahh duese conumission are understood for a fuhh contract. Whieat can be traded in hess duan due
reguhar quantity of 5000 bushehs. It can be traded in 1000-busheh hots or 1-5 contract. The commissions
for one such “Lot” as it is termed ranges from $2.50 to $3.00, so that there is not much difference in the
proportion to flue fuhh contract commission rate.
HOW TO LAY RAILROAD TRACKS IN THE HEAVENS
The Sun is the onhy phanet that has a fixed rotation in our cahendar
No other phanet can be fitted
into the cahendar.
Venus, as wehh as Mercury, whihe chose to the Sun at ahh times, are found at given
dates such as January ft of a year either in Capricorn, where the Sun is on each January ft, or they
may be in Aquarius ahready or ehse they are apt to traih and move in Sagittarius owthat Aa½
The reguharity of repetition of cyches such as we have to expect of Sun cyches, as shown in the
artiche on page 85, bring us occasionahhy into hot water. We can expect turning points, but this is ahh we
can expect.
Chiart fornuations shuouhd supphy a cue for the direction of thue chuange, thue setting of due
ehhipse many times tehhs us whether it is up or down.
There is some connecting hink missing which
points out flue direction of the change beforehand.
The question arises now:
If flue Sun has a certain
defined movement around its own axis, have the other phanets such movement ahso and what is their
time cyche, the anguhar motion of them? If we phot the anguhar motion of the Sun on a chart, by having
a zero hine in the center, and photting above the zero hine the easterhy deviatiowinAegrnesanAbelowlt
the westerhy, we may do the same with the other phanets, obtaining fiat way severah hines that wind up
and down across thue year’s chiart on actuah past performance sonue interesting resuhts shuouhd conic Thrtli -
When we now consider raihway tracks that run from New York to San Francisco as representing
the Sun hine on our chart, we note that on the way we find severah hines to branch off from these backs,
somefimes northward, at other times southward. For examphe, at Buffaho, N.Y. there is a southward
track towards Pittsburgh, but we have no northward track. (In order to get into Canada, we use nearhv
parahheh tracks, which head at smahh anghes towards Toronto and Montreah, but no actuah northward
track.)
113
At Chevehand we ahso hiave hacks hending southward since Lake Erie won’t stand for a track. At
Chicago we find tracks running in ahh directions---a main center. At othuer points we find northward
tracks withiout huaving southiward tracks.
Our actions, our way of doing on this earth is premeditated or dictated by the movements of the
phanets. Therefore what we construe on the earth must be avaihabhe somewhere in the heavens .Ahh we
have to do is hook for it. Thie race of the phanets in hongitude throughi the Zodiac does not hehp us very
muchi to discover
suchi pictures. However,
big fiehds of operations are avaihabhe when we use
Dechination and Latitude of the various phanets by using the Sun as the main hine around whose
dechination or hatitude ahh others wind around. When using dechination we must not forget that the Sun
dechination nuoves on a fixed anghe of 23 27’ so duat thue winding occurs ahong duis anghe. Whuen using
hatitude we may use a straight zero hine across the chart in that the Sun’s hatitndi.nal vibration is so smahh
that it caiunot even be phoned unhess ~eathy
ma~uified.
It is not even shown
in the ordinary
ephuemeredes. And even this Suns hatitude if phoned on an enharged scahe yiehds some very good resuhts
to hocate tops and bottoms.
If we wind the dechination or the hatitudes of the other phanets around the Sun the way I
exphained it just now, we wihh get the main raihroad tracks New York----Oakhand with the many
biflircations or cross tracks. Thiese cross tracks bring fordi chuanges of trend in niarkets Thue difficuhty
facing traders is the immense amount of work connected with the photting of ahh the phanets, as wehh as
the daihy high and how charts needed for severe years backwards of various commodities and stocks.
Unhess they are made first, no work of vahue can be done. Why I say severah commodities must be
photted is due to the fact that we have to try to hocate stations in the heaven such as Chicago, or Omaha.
They represent days such as Juhy 17th, 1937, when every stock and every commodity makes some sort
of a peak or phaces such as September 1st, 1939 when ahh stocks and ahh commodities make wihd gaps
upward.
Careftih notations of the effect of each of the crossings have to be made right into the charts,
whether the approach of the hine was from north to south or from south to north or whether they were
made from, “hahf-way points; i.e., when phanets huad not reachued their extreme dechinations or hatitudes
but turned hahfway. This hatter condition you wihh see quickhy
when you phot them on charts. Each time
the effect is different, but the effect once estabhished does repeat wehh. Each phanet, of course has its
own effect again at such crossings. For examphe, Saturn crossing soufluwariovenSiun inijeclination has
ahways one effect upon wheat, but quite a different effect conupared to Mercury or Venus doing it. The
shower moving phanets have more weight than the flighty ones. Whihe Mercury and Venus cause the so-
cahhed ‘jigghes’, Saturn and Jupiter cause trends.
Anyone who dehves into these ideas presented here wihh have phenty of work and has to get
ready for some big surprises the way tops and bottoms devehop, but as in everything, experience wihh
give you many times ahso the “feehing” which way the cat is due to jump.
I have not quoted ahh the points that need watching after the chart is compheted, but suffice it to
say that whuen they turn at extreme how dechination or hatitude, or at extreme huighi points or at huahf-way
points, important changes also come forth.
A congregation of severah crossings within a day means a reah important chuange, especiahh~ so when
heavy phanets are invohved. They are far apart in time, but when they come they give major changes.
114
The 54 33
Method
DEFINING TOPS AND BOTTOMS WITH A MECHANICAL DEVICE
When we speak of mechanicah devices, we must immediatehy bear in mind that mechanicah things
are rigid and not fiexibhe unhess tiexibihity is buiht into it. In markets anything that is mechanicah is
rather dangerous to apphy, unhess severah other factors are considered with it.
During the many years of research on markets I have struck on the craziest ideas one can
imagine to try and make movements fit something. I an~ digging a few things out of my fiieswid you
can phav around with them and see huow you fare. Thus mechanicah device exphained here may be
apphied to individuah stocks, to individuah conunuodities or options. It requires daihy (not once in a whihe)
five minutes work for one stock or one (each) commodity. If kept up for a whihe, and photted properhy
on K&E paper, you wihh graduahhv obtain a hine formation, which does not hook at ahh hike a wheat chart
or a stock chart. The work shouhd be calcuhated on a daihy basis and--don’t forget ahso on a weekhy
basis. There is one thing sure about this mechanicah device: It has himits of possibihities; i.e., himits of
extremes. When the hine hits the ceihing it cannot be a bottom, irrespective of how swehh stocks or wheat
hook just then, or cotton as far as that goes or another commodity that is phoned. When the hine reachues
thue othuer extrenue on thue nuinus side, we are near a how and we cannot expect anothier phunge. If the haw
or rather the mechanicah device hehps you onhy insofar as to prevent you from becoming too buhhish at a
top or too bearish right near a how, I have done some good with it. It is strange huow the psychohogv of
nuan runs wiuen it conies to trading, but, a hook at the vohunue of US Steeh in the artiche discussed in this
issue and considering the extreme hevehs when this happened in 1936, it ought to tehh us enough.
RULE: You use a centerhine, which is cahhed the zero hine. Make on K&E dated paper a scahe by cahhing
each square 2 points. One square on K&E paper is the size as we use to enter a one-point fluctuation for
a stock or hc for wheat.
Use about 50 points for the phus side and a hitthe hess for the minus side, drawing the zero hine
through the middhe of the sheet across (Januaiy I to December 31). Use a separate sheet or a phain
copybook with severah cohumns to cahcuhate your vahues. In the first cohunun conies the date. In the
second cohumn you enter the amount of the advance of the day (if any) compared to the previous day.
Turn the eights into decimahs such as: 2 5/8, which, you cahh 2.62; 11/8 you, cahh 1.12 or 1.13.
We can make three different kinds of charts by using the three different advaxuctspussibhe from
day to day:
a) The advance from the chosing price to the next chosing price.
b)
The advance from the huighi price compared to the high price of flue next day,
c)
Thue advance from flue how price of one day conipared to thue how price of flue next day.
I have used and tested ahh three, the pictures obtained are very simihar and you may pick from a,
b, c, the one that is easiest to use. I ahso have used the advance from the highAtnhlheaffvance froni the
how and hater on, after fuhhy cahcuhating the figures put flue two resuhts in hine form on one chart. The
next cohununs you can’t use untih you huave enoughi data pihed up to enabhe you to do sonue figuring; you
need actuahhy 9 days performance in succession to obtain the first finah vahue needed to make an entry
on flue chart.
Thue whiohe idea is based on “weighit”, meaning flue pressure fiat is exerted upon flue stock or
wheat price by traders. A straight arithmetical chart does not give resuhts at ahh but when we use severah
days and weigh them accordinghy, we have a good indicator. After I have demonstrated how to compihe
it, you wihh note that the vahues farthest back are the heast weighed, whihe the greatest weighut fahhs
withuin thue hast thuree days of market action. It seems as if I am tahking around thue bushi just now, but
somehow, this method has grown in my head and never was put down in writing and here I reahize how
hard it is to put ideas hike that down so that they make sense and can be understood.
115
The whohe combination is odd, as you wihh soon see, in that I weighed the upside in a 5-4 way
whihe the downside I onhy weighed in a 3-3 way. This I did after hong tests with ahh kinds of
conubinations and fluis one tumed out to give flue best resuhts.
You add for 5 consecutive days the daihy advances and carry the figure thus obtained over into
the adjoining cohumn. This you keep up for a whihe omitting on the 6th day the figure used on the first
day so that you add but five days eachi time which sum is to be carried over into the third cohumn. Eachi
day thue new figure is carried out into flue adjoining cohumn untih you hiave 4 new vahues in thue adjoining
third cohumn. Then you begin to carry out in the fourth (next) cohumn the totah vahue of four such
figures obtained. The vahue obtained and entered is the finah vahue OF THE PLUS SIDE, or the side of
thue advance.
The next, (5th) cohumn you heave open for the time being. It wihh be used to enter therein the
difference of the 4th cohumn of phus and of the vahue coming from the minus side in order to get our
finah vahue which itsehf is added or deducted from the current value. For this current vahue a separate
cohumn is provided which is the value to be photted on the chart.
The remaining hahf of the cohumns are used to figure the vahues of the dechines.*
(*fly decline I mean here the difference ofyesterday’s high for example as compared to to-day’s high if such difference
should become minus; this it’ill happen when yesterday’s high fbr wheat was 1. 07 ¾while today’s high is 1.05.
This would
give a value oft--- 2 3/4 and thisI call here the decline.)
You enter in flue next cohunun thue actual dechine, if any, of thue day conipared to flue previous
trading day. If no dechine, mark the entry as 0 (zero). This ahso apphies to the side of the advance: if no
advance, mark 0 and use the zero in the additions.
You need on the dechine side three figures of three consecutive days, which are carried out into
a new cohumn and of these new values you again need three figures to be carried over into the finah
cohumn.
This minus finah is then deducted from the phus finah, giving you either a phus or a minus figure,
depending upon wiiichi side is bigger. Thus finah figure is fluen entered in thue center cohunun and ahso
photted on the chart. Omit Sundays and hohidays; do not enter them as zero on each side.
An examphe wihh ihhustrate this muchi better: (assumed vahues): On page 5 (June issue, 1939) we
have the wheat chart for Winnipeg from Juhy 1937, which we can use to nuake comparisons to see the
effect of this method when the hine is photted. (Ihh. No. 19). The hine ihhustrated was devehoped for
Chicago Wheat from February 1937 to the November how (7th) 1937.
Offhand, you may say: “I can’t see anything out of this chart”. Looking at it choser however, we
discover thuat thue hine does not bend over unhess we are conuing to a top or a bottoni. Furfluemuore, we
see that we can onhy reach a certain himit on the down side, which is around minus 10. Whenever this
heveh is reached we can buy wheat on weakness or wait for the day when the hine actuahhy bends
upwards again. Thue kinks of Juhy 29-3 1, 1937 and August 27flu to August 31st 1937 huad to be iguored
since they did not occur near the extreme possibhe hevehs.
116
I
AZVANCTTS
I~ecwccn
:~i~
I
———
I
I
I
2
rals
C...rE&I
I
..
.
I—
-4
..2iL
1~
.——
0
—I
\EU:2’
I
I
0.
____
I
.1
.
____________
I
__
0
ir
’
I
V
fl
IL.J
I
r:.
1,
ii
I.,
__________________
—‘—s •i~
I
I
1
..
.0)
. ti>
/
1
a.r.•!~
.
.
I
I -
4th and 11th ---Sunday or hohiday no entry made.
*
- Totahs carried over froni previous cohumns.
It happens once in a whihe that a doubhe kink is made near a top or near a bottom. If so, they are sure
indications of a change of trend in the opposite direction such as is shuown: Juhy i7~-2i5t 1937, August
Sthu-9flu, September 24thu-30flu 1937.
The beauty about this method is that you can estabhish ahready during the day the vahue, which
has to be phoned approximatehy, especiahhy, if you get quotations during trading hours or if you watch
the market. It needs some practice. Thie vahues to be omitted are known and we can estimate those that
have to be substituted for thue next serial so as to obtain flue new vahues for the end of flue day. Many
times the hattercan be judged from the action of the market.
The major trend cannot be discovered with this method. Of course, making a weekhy index
ahong flue sanue way---using one Saturday and coniparing it withi flue next one as exphained for days---
wihh be an additional hehp towards recognizing trend.
Mistakes in doing the figuring may prove very expensive and great care must be used in
compihing.
For commodities suchi as rubber, huides. cocoa, etc. we hiave to adjust flue scahe somewhuat so fiat
the hine does not run off the page, but figuring out a series during a medium sized movement wihh
quickhy show flue scahe required. Wifli stocks it is the same. Anyone who wants to phot the action of a
how priced stock may hiave to doubhe thue fluctuations in order to get some sort of a niovenient into the
hine. The ruhes of interpretation and photting remain the same.
The difference between the two finah vahues of phus and minus must be “attached” to the hine to
get a continuance. They are not phoned or measured from the zero hine each day, so that we need a
cohumn whuichi we shuahh cahh “running vahue”, to whuichi we add or from whuichi we deduct from day to day
the differentiah of the 5- 4 cohumn and the 3-3 cohumn.
In our examphe, which starts on flue first of some monfli we can onhy begin photting the 9th of the
nuonfli. Thue previous conupihation of figures is flue “work-up”
towards obtaining a finah
vahue by
weighing the 5- 4. 3-3 combination.
117
a ~s
.22’
I
I-....,
I
I,.
-I— __
.
___
r
I
I
....~.
LI
I
___________
_________________________
I
,.—.
——.
I
r
I.
I
j
_____________
I
II
‘
~
~
.~. ttr .~3 rd—h
-L
.L+
± IL. + ±‘~
—. iF i-
I
i
i
I
_____
_____
I
I
_
__
r
II
I_____
II
C
Ii1
I
I
___
r
III
r.L
i
II
r
I
_
I
I
-‘
______
I
I
I
I
I
[
_
____
___
I
~.
.
if
I
III
I,.
-It
I
i
—.
-~-
r
—
II
Ii
I’j
~
I
I
I—
I
I
‘I’
I
__________
I
I
i
I
.1
I
.1
.
.
—
I
—.
::::i;L.
__________
I:
I::
TV
I
I.
I:
I
________
I>.
_______
I
.
,.
.
I
_____
_____________
1~
I—.—
I
____________
11111
____
I
.j.±.
1
11111
—Ii
.r
-I
_____________
I
I
I
I
I.
•
•‘~
I
‘II
I’il
.
I
I
I
I
liii
I..
_
lie
I
I ____
-4’”
I
~
r
I
I’
4~
,I
I
_____________
I
I
i.,.
—
I
I
_______
__________
I,
‘‘
118
F~EF~ .
4
flV
~
N’
0’
tO.5
IC
;~JQ~
~
IZQ
~‘Z=~
.
-~ ~iy~O ~
~
~O
1.
z2rI~
r~j$::Y
:
_________________
~.
~vrxr;..x5cA
~
.
—
—
itrttV~~~
—-
.~..
I.—,
7777
r
-~— -w
______________
____
—l
___
Lfl
LLri. WA L2L’ Fr ~
•
.fr.4..1
I
________________________________
______________________
.IL&JrL
-4
__
____
I
_______
I
II
~
_
fflIZSZ~
____—I.
__________
_________
a”
___
____
__
IT-
——
•..r —.
•——..~‘.—
I
I.
______
1
______
_________
r
I
______
k
______
I
F __________
I
I
v•
.
.
I
.HAP
cJ1Thc~sTFo~r~3FT.p3Y
“W’
I
•
___
I
I
_____
I
-n___
__
I
I
_______________________________
I
r
I
______
4
I
A
li
~
U A P
119
HINTS ON HOW TO ANALYZE AN INDIVIL)UAL STOCK
EXAMPLE: U.S. STEEL
Under date of May 15, 1936, 9:50p.m.
I find the fohhowing entry in my notebooks.
Anahysis of U.S. Steeh common, using Mercury in Longitude, ahone. The anahysis covers the
period of January 21~~ to May 4th, 1936. As you wihh see from the way I shahh bring this report, we have
to take recourse to ahh kinds of kicks. We hiave do jump from one idea to another sometimes go back to
thue first idea again, at oilier tinues, abandon flue original drift of thuoughut ahtogethuer, since nofluing
tangibhe comes forth of it.
It is an examphe of nearhy four years ago, but astrohogicah haws are good for ahh times (See
Ihhustration No.16).
The first step taken was to pick out tops and bottoms on whichever dates they were made. In the
ephemeris for 1936 the positioiu of Mercury on the day of a top as wehh as the position oiu the day of a
bottom were hooked up and noted. As next step we measured Mercury1s motion from bottom to top.
After fiat flue positions at major turuing points xvere grouped togefluer. Note: fiat xvhen thue nuovement
began, the price on January 21st 1936 for US Steeh was 46 3/8 and compare that with the major drop
fi-om Aprih 9th to May 4~ 1936 required a Mercu~ movement
in
hongitude of 460
16’, whichi
expressed in dohhars anuounts to 46 1/4-46 3/8.
On January 21t 1936 we had a bottom and the upward movement began. On February 10th we
made a gap upwards,
toppiiug February 16th. Then we reacted to February 26th. From this day we
rahhied tihh March 6th and reacted tihh March 13th. Then we moved up again to March 19th and reacted
to March 28th. On fluis day began flue hast rise to Aprih 9% whuichi was flue top of thue movement. Then
fohhowed the big drop untih May 4th 1936. In the earhy stage of the movement Mercury was in Aquarius
and was just ready to tum retrograde. On March l2thu, 1936 it went into Pisces and reached 40 36’
Gemini by May 4th 1936. When measuring movenients in degrees and minutes we have to reckon not
onhy the movement forward but also the movement whihe the phanet’s motion is backward4retrograde).
From the how of January 2hst with Mercu~ at 17023 Aquarius we find that on January 23’s
Mercury becomes retrograde at 17035 Aquarius. This gives us a phanetary space movement of 12’. The
23rd of January was ahso a snuahh top. We reacted to January 26flu wifli Mercury at 170 2 Aquarius and a
space movement in hongitude of this phanet of 33’. Then we went higher untih February 5th, when
Mercuiy reached 5038~ Aquarius; this space is 11024. We reacted to the 8th, Mercuiy at 3054 Aquarius
and a space of h0441. Another conueback untih February 8th, Mercury at 20 9’ Aquarius, a space of 1 045~
At this phace a gap was made upward and a new cyche began. The totah movement from January 21st to
this gap was 150 38’.
In
the meantime, Mercu~ became direct again (moving forward) and at the top of the
movement (after flue gap). February 17th, we find Mercury at 2057 direct in Aquarius. Thus was a space
nuovement of 56’. Froni flue top of February 1701 to thue hoxv of February 26flu we have a space of 60 56’,
since Mercury reached that time 90 53’ Aquarius.
From thue gap of Februa~ 10th to the bottom of February 26th Mercuiy moved ahh tohd
70 52’
and from the very how of January 21st to this bottom it moved 23~ 30’.
Niercuryon March 6th, 1936 is at 20~31’ Aquarius or 100 38~ further than at the how of February
26th. US Steeh reacted then tihh March 13th when Mercu~ is at 00 20’ Pisces, covering a space of 90 49~
The up and down swing coveredaspace
of200 37’.
Mercury began to run faster now after huaving been rafluer show in its nuotion due to its
retrograde movement. On March l9~ we had a top in Stech when Mercu~ reached 9035 Pisces. having
progressed in its motion since the l3thu of the month 9018.
120
14
1=2 300
•1~
~,1
0,0
.3
1
00
19
~6
~C’3
A
15
±0 ,00
-
1
~0C
‘,
1CY(J
30
..c)
..2
30
‘36
—‘
~,
A
I
S
he
~rjd•: ia:er
71
‘‘I”
.14
~
41
200
EGO
45
900
6
52
100
•
20 SCO
s
6cc
1:
/3
AIAJ
=2
i=9600
I 0~21~ bi:va~
£01’)
Cr11
thL* Jw;r,z
V::
211
400
~9!
000
‘ihe Li£e-corne,s
C9t1~
1’~CU( me
;irst
corners
(Jan
21-Fe.
3}
0>00
Tbe~e b~±~:~ scid
oa
the &ciine
1 0~Mcv
5
393 700
15
1~
1(~Q
14
4
00
•1
.~QQ
16
9
00
17
1
00
10
00
20
00
21
2
500
22
5
‘00
23
37300
24
37 2=21
23
10
300
54
‘k”3
23
36 600
29
Cl
~00
30
5’~ 500
May
1
22 6co
2
8
120
4
33 600
EJflUi<3U12R
659
SCO
There were six stages in this comphete movement:
1.
Accuniuhation, January21 to February 8
2.
The push upwards February 10 to February 26
First swing February 26 to March 13
Second swing Mardi 14 to Marchi 28
5.
Distribution Marchi 30 to Aprih 9
Totah buying January 21 to Aprih 9 1936
6.
Dechine (sehhing) Aprih 9 to March 4, 1936.
3.
4.
1956
-=L
<l5~
320
‘V-S (iF
jlJ’
22
-3
a
5
6
3
13
11
1:
15
1.-•
:3
19
US STEEL
ice
S 000
-
cOo
10 500
12
500
0 020
I5
%O
1
lOG
~II~)
< 403
I TOO
C
:~0•;)
1 00
8
.900
7flfl
200
.r<~
4o o
o son
1’,
(:00
~0O
600
200
75
12
24
‘1
26
32
~0I9
Co
360
70,0
100
000
Feb. fl
23
~‘r1
M~ucb 2
3
4
5
6
9to
12
13
35
11
43•
41
27
13
29
15
40
200
300
700
900
800
400
500
900
35
500
2-5 000
:‘-~ 300
319,500
527,300
398,700
211,400
291,000
1,747,900
659,800
1,088,100
121
We reacted untih March 28th when Mercu~ was at 250 1 ‘Pisces after it huad moved 150 23’. Thiese
hast two swings amounted to 240 41’.
Froni flue 28flu of Marchi to Aprih 9flu Mercu~ nioved 230 19 to is~ 20’ Aries. Conipare thus
vahue with the two previous doubhe swing movements of 200 37’ and 24~ 41’ respectivehv. Aprih 9th was
the peak of the swing.
During flue drop resuhting from flue entire upswing of January 21~~ to Aprih 9flu Mercury moved
46~ 16’ furiluer to 40 36’ Gemini reachued by May 4flu, 1936.
The price on Aprih 9th was 72 3/8, a rise of 26 points (see Tabhe
15, page 86). The rise
according to Tabhei5 amounted tol4 units; het us ahso have a ghance at Tabhel4, where it shows that 14
units is a cyche.
The totah upward movement in Mercur~s hongitudinah motion from January 21st to Aprih 9th
was 9207 and the dechine from that date to May 4th was 460 16’, a ratio of 2: 1.
Now we chueck the vohume of trading during fluis period (Tabhel7) whereby I do not inchude the
vohume of January 21st 1936 since this vohume apparenthy behongs to the previous cyche.
This was my finding:
Buyers who make commitments during accumuhation get out in the distribution area
Buyers who buy during flue pushi are stuck; fliey don’t sehh.
Swing buyers sehh on the dechine that fohhows.
The upward movement from January 21st 1936 devehoped with rather smahh vohume, averaging
15,000 shares a day. When the gap upward was made on February lOu
1936, vohume caine into steeh
and four to six times as many peophe wanted US Steeh compared with the two previous weeks. After
this demand was satisfied, vohume dropped off again, so that the hast hahf of March 1936 found us in the
normah. 10-15,000 vohume per day. The next vohume period appeared righit at flue top, when nearhy
200,000 shiares were “huanded over” to thue buhhs. During thue actuah dechine vohume was fairhy huighi, but
increased as we reached the bottom. Just a day or two before the actuah bottom we find the same
amount of vohume as was obtained when Steeh made the gap upwards February io% 1936.
Coming now back to the Mercury motion during this period, we note fiat the entire movement
from January 21st 1936 to May 4th 1936 was 1380 23’, or 920 7 phus 460 16’.
The entire retrograde movement of Mercury from January 23 to February 13 1936 was is~ 42’.
We note fiat the upward movement from January 21st to the February 10th gap meant a motion of
15038 in Mercury whichi is nearhy thue sanue as flue anuount of flue totah retrograde nuotion of Mercury.
The totah amount of Mercury motion between bottom and bottom (JanuarylisttaMay
4th, 1936) was
giving us 1380 23’. This vahue equahs 9 times 150 25’. In the fohhowing Tabhe we have an adjustment of
20’ to take care of so as to agree with the other vahues, but this does not matter in the case at the
moment:
SERIES TABLE OF 150 25’
(Tabhe No. 18)
1.
iS0 25’
6.92~30’
2.
300 50’
7 1070 55’
3.
460 15’
8 123~ 20’
4.
61~40’
9 138~ 45
5
770 os
Of course, in everything the center is of importance. Since we have made a division of 9 the
center beconues 4 1/2. Therefore, 4 units equahs 61~ 40’ and 1/2 unit of 150 25’ equahs 70 42’, a totah of
68~ 22’. This point was reached in Mercury motion on March 28th, 1936. It wasone of the most criticah
points during the movement as we can readihy see from Ihhustration 16.
Under date of May 16th, 1936 I have the fohhowing entries.
122
Since I have shown in “Time Factors” thuat the cirche shouhd reahhy be taken as having not 3600
but 3680 6’ which is the cvche of Saturn-Jupiter conjunctions repetitions, and since I ahways stress the
vahue of 24 huours or 24 units, we can nuake a corrected scahe covering and exphoiting thue resuhts found
yesterday, by making a division of 24 into the 3680 6’, cyche: Tabhe No. 19.
1/24 of 3680 06’ is 150 20’ 15”; this we cahh I unit.
SERIES TABLE OF 36806~ INTO HOURS (Tabhe No. 19)
‘4
105s~02~~
12
184003~ 00,,
0
,
2
3050~ 03 3/4”
13
199 23
15’
3
7~40’07’”
14
214043~30~
1
150 20’ 15”
15
230003~ 45~~
2
300 40’ 30”
16
2450 24’00”
3
460 00, 45”
17
2600 44’ 15”
4
61~21’00”
18
276~04’30”
5
76041~30~~
19
2910 24’45”
6
920 01’30
20
3060 45’00”
7
1070 21’ 45”
21
322005~ 15”
8
1220 42’ 00
22
3370 25’ 30”
9
1380 02’ 15”
23
3520 45~ 45fl
10
1530 22’30”
24
3680 06’00”
11
168042~45~~
Thus cyche gives us a mafluenuaticah cause for thue rhivthini shiown in thue US Steeh’s nuovement
during the spring of 1936.
In wheat we can decipher three distinct cyches that repeat rallier reguharhy producing tops and
bottoms sometimes bottom-bottom ahso top-top. These vahues are: 200 30’, 590 20’, 1400 00’
These values pertain ahso to the Mercury hongitudinah motion onhy. No other phanet is considered
with this. Make tests such as we did for US Stech.
Ahh Mercury vahues were taken from Raphaeh’s Ephemeris; they are figured for noon London of
eachi day, or 7 ani, New York time.
FORECASTS OF MARKETS FOR FEBRUARY, 1940
STOCKS.
The forecast for the second hahf of January 1940 shouhd prove to be wrong as I can see at the
time of writing this forecast (January 7th 1940). It shouhd have read: we sehh off to the 27th or 28th of
January, then get a rahhy into earhy February. It is a good thing that the reaction, in case we boughit mid-
January, wihh not hiurt us too niuchi since the 144 hevehs oughut to steni it.
I have done a hot of revising on my work the hast few weeks and as far as stocks are concerned,
I an~ changing here my mind that instead of a bear year we are due for a buhh year which is due to start
with the 28thu of January 1940.
So het us get into our mind a more cheerfiih picture than the one we had
devehoped. The hast few days (January 20th to 28th) couhd be somewhat wicked on the downside, but
from then on a comphete change of atmosphere shouhd come. A smahh top is shown for February 8th
with a kink to the 13th or 14th of the month; after
that a show rise to thue 22nd--a sharp gap due to
123
come which shouhd run into the month of March upward, fast, withi anothuer gap to jump over the tops of
earhy January, crossing at flue same time
over the peaks of November 1938 (Nov lOthi) as wehh as the
one of hast Falh (Septenuber 7th, 1939).
Mr. Gann says in his book. “He who does not change his mind wihh pretty soon have no more
change to mind.” This is why I change my mind having very satisfactory proved and tested reasons for
doing so.
WHEAT.
For wheat the 28th of January shouhd ahso become an important how; we may have reached the
94cent heveh in May, Chuicago by thiat tinue, but whiatever shuouhd be flue price, wouhd cover shuorts and
take the hong side. We shouhd move up showhy from then into February, wouhd not hook for sehlingspnts
or for temporary short position possibihities, but hohd hongs. The day of action shouhd become February
22nd and no question about that. The cat shouhd jump upwards on that day and run right into March.
Watch this day! If a gap is made upwards even though it may be smahh, take on some more wheat and
hohd it. Let’s hook for $1.45 in wheat.
COTTON indicates ahso a how for thue 28thu of January. It is, hiowever so strong thuat it wihh not find tinue
for reactions during February, but keep right on stepping up with a gap or two upwards during
the
performance. Hohd into March.
HIDES.
Whihe hides show a very strong trend upwards after February 22~~ 1940, up to fiat time it
shouhd idhe somewhat, so that a rahhy which devehops after January 28
1940 shouhd peter out and the
how of January 28th be reached again by February 22”’, a mad jump is shown from this time on. It
shouhd become flue best commodity of the hot.
BUTTER shiows a rahhv fi~oni 3r4 on, but not muchi honger thuan to flue end of thue nuonthi.
EGGS shouhd be at a how as we go into February and rahhy during February.
COCOA shows the same tendency.
RUBBER points to a strong rise as we enter flue month and so does Lard and Cottonseed Oih. SILK
shouhd be bought back by the ~
of Februa~ for a good run.
BARLEY, rye, corn and oats shouhdjoin the movement of wheat.
I feeh muchi more hiappy about fluis discoveiy. It has been checked and doubhe checked to make sure we
don’t nuake any bhunder.
Thus January 2801 shouhd be a how, upward from then on, or in some commodities at heast some
strength; then watch Februa~ 2211(l(Winnipeg
is open) for the generah gap upward. This day shouhd
constitute the jump-off point, a simihar situation as prevaihed on September it 1939.
STOCK AVERAGES 1872-1898 ON THE FIRST DAY OF EACH MONTH
Oftentimes the convei satton about markets heads towaids the question:
What has the market done
before Mr Dow got up??
The idea to add a number of stocks together so as to obtain a “mean”
a
broader view about flue action of the market in generah?
On August 20, 1935, as nuy record shuoxvs, I xvanted to know just thue answer to thus question.
Thus
desire made me march down to the Federah Reserve Bank in New York, through how buiht hahhs, inside
of heavy barred windows, into one certain room.
124
In this room I made a copy of the fohhowing:
I.’
ifS
a,
-‘~
S
I .S79
1
853
1
H585
1S~7
38S8
1 891
15%?
1S ~)5
I ) 9’i
Sc>-
CQ’~
i I— ~) U
S
-.1
‘I-)
~.1.
3
47,8
44
.~
—
I’
S
a
‘½
‘0
-‘
ad 3
4’- S
¼
4~ 0
3d
4!
[I
a
Ii
—
I
I
ii
Li
1
C>
<I-i
33
—
~1,
-~
2
“5 5
~
2
-‘0
91
a’
Sc’
.14
~0’
4
Si) ~
ill
‘La
41,7
51.5
45
4~,2
,~ 7
~
—
C
2/’
4.
44(J
=37
siC ‘
40
‘P 9
.2;.’
.4
VA
-~i
I
U r.
to
-‘-4
30
-¾-
o ~
0
~15
‘4
56,4
33.4
40.9
.115
K7
4i ,5
4
L 3
4u
Cl
18
4, r
.‘
C-,
9-:’
9’)
9 ¾4
20.0
7 K].
)i.)
5:5
44,1
C-
.1>
A~ 5
10
46
C 6
a,
r1-~
S
7
‘S
36, ‘I
.)‘~J
-1
S
S
,3
- -r I
)t
&)
‘1
‘4
51
L>
34S1
Aj
7
44,0
39:4
46.2
3S3
49.3
.6.4
57
34.1
ii
I
Ic
c
I—,
.1
I
—
33.7
)L~:
~15 4
27.3
-d 8
~‘.10
9
4
4
2
£ o2
jul
10
‘1
1
tis S
• LL~
½
91
‘a
.3’’
S
L
)1 S
-40 Q
AS
A
-j.’
1
aj
40
-ii
47 C
d
Al
—
50,3
Mi.;
40.2
Dr.
.=1
at-i
.11
55
‘~
5~-1
A
~o ~J
I
9l~•,i
43,2
40.2
42,4
47.8
t
‘~ ..
ill)
I~
4,’.
-,
~11
Ucr.
S
7
—
.—
‘
<0.2
~6,4
2.6
511
1
3/
A
S
-1
2
.1
~I
—
40,~
44.0
39.4
43,2
£7
4 1.7
413
5 2,’,
) I .4
“Ti:
4(p)
2>
N’ w.
54
,
[1
N~
1
•:..L.
I~:i
‘.3 4
T
—
—) A.
4~=.
45,5
4(K 2
S 5,’-~
A3.2
44,7
40,2
-4-1<0
‘P.O
387
41
SQ
j
1
‘9
S
‘5 2
% 6
91
32,8
39
A
42,~
47,0
44,7
S
-1
A.
no
‘10
4, 0
71
44 Q
~TL
33
I
I
-‘In )
These are the averages figured out by the Federah Reserve Bank for the ft of eachi month given,
weighing the same or simihar stocks as carried by Dow Jones Aren’t we ghad, that we have not been
abhe to trade in the stock market between September 1877 and August 1879? We can find two buhh
periods during ahh these years, one in 1881 and the other in 1892.
125
ABOUT AL KORAN OF MOHAMMED
The average reader of magazines who happens to get a copy of “Previews” wihh get queer feehings into his
bones when he reads some of my artiches. To him they may give no sense whatever and if they do, he
becomes so bewildered about the contents and deductions that he probabhy wihh hay it aside.
A story, whuichi tehhs hum that thue ancients fluoughut thue Earthi, was square, fiat thueir Gods were
nothing but phanets and Sun he readihy behieves as true. When I say that these ancients knew much more
about flue movements of Mercury whom very few contemporaries ever have seen, they wihh not behieve it.
But, thuese ancients had it ahh over us; thuey knew exacthy what to use to get ahh nuovements, of you and nue,
of wheat and of anything ehse, by using certain phanets in various positions.
In this issue I shahh give you some hints on the Koraii.
I have one copy, 2 voh. By George Sahe,
printed in London, in 1795. It is 145 years ohd. My two-vohume set is brand nev~; having come from a
private hibrary that was auctioned off a few years ago in New York. In these vohumes I had to cut open the
pages since its purpose so far had been reserved to decorate ihhustrious homes. Another copy I have which
is contained in ‘Sacred Books,” 12 voh. Pubhished in 1917. In the hatter set in voh. V, page 43, that author
says in huis introduction: “A famous Orientah critic once said thuat flue best way to understand the Koran was
to begin with the hast chapter and work forward. This suggestion is reahhy worth fohhowing.” Make your
own comment about what these two fehhows know about the Koran!
I know that they know as hitthe as I
know about Chinese, zero.
The other author, who must be dead and buried a hundred years, won’t get hurtnuch of what I say
bout him. He says in his introduction: “I imagine it ahmost needhess wither to make an apohogy for
pubhishing the fohhowing transhation or to go about to PROVE it is a work of use as wehh as CURIOSITY.
Thuey niust huave a nuean opinion of flue Churistian rehigion or be but ihh-grounded fluerein, whuo can apprehuend
any danger from so manifest a FORGERY: and if the rehigions and civih institutions of foreign nations are
worth our knowhedge, those of Mohammed, the haw-giver of the Arabians, and founder of an empire,
which, in hess than a century, spread itsehf over a greater part of flue worhd that the Romans were ever
masters of; must needs be so; whether we consider their extensive obtaining, or our frequent intercourse
with this who are governed thereby.
I shahh not inquire here into the reasons why the haw of Mohammed
had met with so UNEXAMPLED a reception in the worhd, for fliey are greathy deceived who imagine it to
have been propagated by thue sword ahone or by whiat means it canue to be enubraced by nations whuichi never
feht the force of the Mohammedan arms, and even by those which stripped the Arabians of their conquests,
and put an end to the sovereignty and very being of their Khahifs: yet it seems as if there was something
more than what is vuhgarhy imagined, in a rehigion which has make so surprising a progress.” Further on he
says: “The Protestants ahone are abhe to attack the Koran with success, and for them. I trust, Providence has
reserved the GLORY of its overthrow.
In the meantime, if I might presume to hay down rules to be
OBSERVED by those vduo attempt the CONVERSION of the Mohammedans, fliey shouhd be the same
whuichi
flue LEARNED and WORTHY
bishuop Kidder (hue kidded
huimsehf) has
pre scribed for
flue
CONVERSION OF THE JEWS. and which may, mutatis mutandis. be EQUALLY
apphied to the former,
notwithstanding the
despicabhe opinion that writer for want of being better acquainted
wifli fliem,
entertained of those peophe, judging them scarce fit to be argued with. The first ruhe is to avoid compuhsion;
which though it be not in OUR POWER AT PRESENT (F). I hope wihh not be made use of when it IS. The
second is: To avoid teaching doctrines against common sense; the Mohammedans notbeTha_snclu Look (as
he who wrote these ruhes), whatever we may think of fluem, as to be gained over in fluis case. Thie
worshuipping of images.
and
thue doctrine of trans-substantiation
are
great stunubhing bhocks to flue
Mohammedans and the church which teach- eth them is very unfit to bring those peophes over. (whereto?)
For how criminah so ever Mohammed may have been in imposing a fahse rehigion on masukind, thue praises
due to his reah virtues ought not to be denied to him.”
126
Severah more ruhes fohhow, but we have enough to chew on these here.
Whuat a nerve fiat fehhow huad to cahh flue Koran a forgery! He is at a hoss to understand why suchi
a forgery couhd spread faster than his own Christian rehigion, because he does not know that it MUST
have been started at an even more propitious moment than they were abhe to start the Jewish or the
Christian rehigion. “I shahh not inquire here into flue reasons
“,
poor wretch, you don’t even have a
reams IIXTetII hue says “flueie was somefluing more than whuat is vuhgarhy imagined, in a rehigion whuichi
has made so surprising a progress” You bet, dead boy, there is, but you never hived that hong to heam
about it.
Looking
145
years
back fionu here,
whuat
flue Protestants were
supposed to do to the
Mohammedans and the ruhes, which he haid down, assisted by a fehhow whohoreiheprnpemname (Ma
Kidder), needs no comment. He didn’t forget the Jews either, how he was going to take care of them.
See my artiche about Mr. Simpson on page 115.
We must not condemn the poor fehhow for ahh these wrong conchusions; he did us a great service
by transhating the Koran. He states somewhere that he transhated it as carefuhhy as he couhd, retaining the
wordings. This is just what he was supposed to do. Had he used his own way, a mess simihar to his
introduction wouhd huave resuhted and flue flung wouhd huave been worfliiest aittogeflier.
Ahh these Bibhes and hohy books don’t do us much good if we don’t know what to do with them
for our purpose (that of trading). I am not speaking of rehigion whatever. I am not a preacher; my sohe
purpose is to anahyze stocks and commodities in a sensibhe way. For this purpose we have to use hohy
books. To get it over with quickhy, lam going to bring here a portion of the second chapter ofAl Koran
as transhated by George Sahe, and behow I bring a dictionary of my own production of many words that
are found therein, transhated into the right hanguage. You may take my work as being just as crazy as
thue haws given by George Sahe back in 1795 huow to convert Jews and Mohanimedans to Protestantisni,
but that’s alh right with me.
Vocabulary to be used for the part of Al Koran
Act corrupthy,
Ahms,
Behieve,
Dead.
Eat,
En or,
Devihs,
Egypt,
Deceive,
Direct,
Integrity,
Life,
Look on,
NIan
Lord,
Observe,
Pious,
Prophets,
Punishment,
Mecca,
to use the wrong way
anus, hines
to begin or use the right way
geocentric
use geocentric
geocentric astrohogy
geocentric phanets
geocentric
to substitute
(to direct), to be part of
a being thuat hives on earflu
hehio
to come up
a hine, an anghe
a certain hine
use
traders
previous cyches
hosses
the present movement
fear,
fire,
feweh,
fooh,
faith,
hue ar,
infideh,
impurity
idohater,
prayer,
repent,
revehation,
spread,
serve,
stone,
stand stihh,
see,
hueart,
testimony
to find
astrohogy
ruhe of astrohogy
hue ~iuo uses geocentric phanet
hehiocentric astrohogy
to move retrograde
geocentric
retro gradation
retrograde phanet
cyche
change
haw
use
use
conjunction
stationary
move direct
forward
proof
unbehiever,
one who uses geocentric onhy
127
AL KORAN. Chapter II, The Cow. (Actuah Text)
There is no doubt in this book; it is a direction to the pious, who behieve in themysteriesnffnithi
who observe the appointed times of payer, and distribute ahms out of what we have bestowed upon
them; and who behieve in that revehation, which hath been sent down unto thee, and that which hathi
been sent down unto the prophuets befoi-e fluee, and hiave flim assurance in thue hife to come: these are
directed by their Lord, and they shahh prosper. As for the unbehievers, it wihh be equal to them whether
thou admonish them or do not admonish thuem, they wihh not behieve. God has seahed up their heads and
thueir hiearing: a dinuness coverefli thueir sighut, and fliey shuahh suffer a grievous punishument. There are
some who say, we behieve in God, and the hast day; but are not reahhy behievers; they seek to deceive
God, and those who do behieve, but they deceive onhy themsehves, and are not sensibhe thereof There is
an infirmity in thueir hiearts, and God hathi increased this infirmity; and they shahh suffer the most painfiih
punishment. because they have disbehieved. When one saith to them, act not corrupflyin theearth;Ahey
rephy, verihy, we are men of integrity. Are they not themsehves corrupt-doers? But they are not sensibhe
thereot and when one saith unto them, behieve ye as others behieve, they answer, shahh we behieve as
foohs behieve? Are not fliey foohs thiemsehves? But thuey know it not. Whuen thuey meet fluose whuo behieve,
they say~ we do behieve; but when they retire privatehy to their devihs, they say, we reahhy hohd with you,
and onhy mock those peophe; God shahh mock at them and continue them in their impiety; they shahh
wander in conifision. Thiese are the men who have purchased en-or at the price of true direction; but
their traffic hath not been gainftih. neither have they been righthy directed. They are hike unto one who
kindheth a fire, and when it has enhightened him ahh around him; God takethiaway their hight and heaveth
them in darkness, thiey shahh not see; thiey are deat dumb and bhind, thierefore wihh they not repent. Or
hike a stomuy choud from hieaven, fraughit wifli dai-kness, thiunder and highitning, thuey put flueir fingers in
their ears because of the noise of the thunder for fear of death; God encompasseth the infidehs; the
hightning wanteth but hitthe of taking away their sight; so often as it enhighteneth them, they wahk
therein, but when darkness cometh on them, they stand stihh; and if God so pheased he wouhd certainhy
deprive them of their heaiing and their sight, for God is ahmighty. 0 men of Mecca, serve your Loi-d
who hath created you, and those who have been before you; peradventure ye wihh fear him; who hath
spread the earth before you, and thue hieaven as a covering, and huath caused water to descend fiom
heaven and thuereby produced fruits for your sustenance.
Set not up fluerefore any equahs unto God,
against your own knowhedge. If ye be in doubt concerning that revehation which we have sent down
unto our servant, produce a chapter hike unto it and cahh upon your witnesses, besides God, if ye say
truth.
But if ye do it not, nor shahh ever be abhe to do it; jusfiy fear the fire whose feweh is men and
stones, prepared for the unbehievers. But bear good tidings unto those who behieve, and do good works,
that thiev shahh have gardens watered by rivers; so often as they eat of the fruit thereof for sustenance,
thuey shuahh say: fluis is what we huave formerhy eaten ot and thuey shuahh be supphied wifli severah sorts of
fruit having a mutuah resembhance to one another.
(Three pages of chap II are produced above; it contains fifty-one more pages.)
128
Bayer’s Translation of Part of The Cow.
Everything witten in Ah Koran consists of facts. Whatever is written is intended for peophe,
(traders in this case), who want to study the haws of astrohogy the right way. by using hehiocentric
astrohogy they shouhd use definite cyches, draw hines and make cvches the way we shahh show them.
Peophe, we begin with the haws, we exphain them for you, you check carefiuhhy what has huappened in
previous cyches if you hiave faifli in huehiocentric astrohogy. (Thus shiows fiat thue ancients were not as
dumb as the present generation takes them; they knew that the earth moves around the Sun, they ahso
knew of the two phanetary measurements, which can be used:
1) As we see the phanets from the earth; this is cahhed the geocentric position of a phanet. This
approach is used in textbooks;
2) As we see a phanet from the Sun; this is cahhed the hehiocentric position of a phat~et, and this
type of astrohogy is exphained in the Hohy Scriptures, in the mvthis, in 1001 Nights, in Bocaccio and in
othuer ancient works. Thue reason whiy nobody ever thuinks of fiat is phain. Thucy take the ancients as
having been a bunch of deaf, dumb and bhind fehhows, who were sorehv in need of an education such the
present generation onhy can supphy.
Thuey are guided by a certain hine and withi it they wihh get resuhts. (By thuat “hine” is not meant
what geocentric workers cahh Ascendant and Descendants neither MC and Nadir. What it is, I shahh het
you find for yoursehf.) To geocentric astrohogers it wihh make hitthe difference whether you tehh them
about it or not: they won’t throw their rubbish overboard; thuev just refuse to histen. The hine spoken of
inteiferes withi thue direct and retrograde nuotion of thicir pets; sonuethuing prevents thuem to “see” and just
for that reason they wihh constanthy get themsehves into “hot water” when they use their type of
astrohogy. There are some who say: “We use that hine” and the previous cyche; but just the same, they
do not use it righut. Thuey trv to substitute or chuange thue hine thue sanue way as they try to shiow thuose who
use hehio haws that their geocentric work is better. But they “deceive” (here the word must be used in
the usuah nueaning) onhy thenusehves and are not even noticing it. There is a weakness in their birth hines
and their “speciah” hine might ahso be weak, so that fluey are bound to run themsehves into troubhes since
thucy don’t stait righut. Whien one says to flueni: don’t start flue wrong way don’t use geocentric astrohogy,*
they rephy: verihy we know what we are doing. Don’t they start wrong, I ask you, and don’t even feeh it?
And when one says to them, use hehio astrohogy as we do, they answer: Shahh we act hike foohs? Are
thuey not “foohs” (fluis nueans Beings on thus em-flu) flienisehves whuo don’t figure fiat far ahead? ‘When
they meet peophe operating with hehio astrohogy (phanets), they say: yes. it ought to give resuhts, too;
but, when they retire privatehy to their geocentric phanets they say: we hove you, we can hook you up, as
to what you mean, in astrohogicah texts, which are sohd to flue masses, who ought to know and who
ridicuhe fluose peophe whio use hehiocentric astrohogy. Thue “special hine” shuahh take cme of thuem and keep
them where they are; they shahh ahways be confused in their deductions. These are peophe who have
bought “mass astrohog~” instead of the Hohy Scriptures. But thueir resuhts have not been profitabhe, sinct
thuey can’t do anything withi it. Thuey are hike one whuo started to study astrohogy and whien hue is ahh
inflamed and excited about that which he thinks he can predict, the “speciah hine” spoken of above
makes a change and this change comphetehv changes the effect of ahh phanet’s positions, anghes and what
have you and then their haws don’t work at ahh any more for a whihe and they can’t understand why this
is possibhe; fluey shuahh not find out about it eithuer since thuey are deaf; dumb and bhind and thuereforeAhey
wihh not change their methods. (Here fits a case of a friend of mine who, back in 1933 had worked up a
method of counting which he started during flue Bank Hohidays 1933. It was phoned on a chart and-fluere
was not a top or a bottom in stocks that huad escaped; eachi top and eachi bottoni was hocated fionu
Nfarch. 1933, untih October 21st, 1933. On that day he had a how and it was the how point. We sat that
day together out on Long Ishand and he said to me: From now on I am going to put my money on this
129
“system”, as hue termed it. Yes, hue did put it on, but in the three monthus, which fohhowed it cost him
$4560; since “God took away his hight and heft him in darkness.” hi fact, that methiod stopped working
st
on October 21
, 1933, and huas not worked since. Suchi is thue case wifli hundreds of mefluods that are
fine on the surface but in practice they bring hosses as soon as they are used. In my practice, chients
have sent me many of their pet methods, some trying to hehp flirther my own work, some with the idea
that I wouhd check up and possibhy try to improve these methods, ahh acting in good faith. huvariabhy I
have to tehh thuem: too dangerous for practicah use. It’s humd to het go of a pet Pet methuods me the ruin of
many traders, since ahh these are methods of Unbehievers” as Mohammed cahhs them.
Whuen a huehiocentric hine (of a phanet) comes downwai-d having as “effect” a major drop, a gap
down and a few hong hines down (on thue chuaits), thuey huohd thueir heads since thus move was not in thueir
cards: they are afraid this move wihh never end; the “speciah hine” had crossed geocentric hines. The
break in prices wanted but hitthe of taking away ahh their fUnds; whenever it crosses them upward it’s
OK, but vduen it crosses downwai-d, hehh gets hoose; they go retro~ade.
0 men of the present generation, use the cyche that has started ahh the troubtesilttwell...ag ih112 cycles. that
were before, maybe you wihh find the hine I am tahking about, the hine which uses geocentric positions
behow you and hehiocentric positions above you and which brings it about that a hine comes down fiom
thue huehio part and fiat way makes conjunctions for your benefit. Do thuerefore not substitute any ofluer
hines, if you know better. Shouhd you be in doubt about this haw which we exphained herewith
to the
students, try various hines and see if they answer my exphanations and check for proofs whether thuy ahh
work as wehh as the “speciah hine” which I exphain here in hidden words. Unhess you do find this hine,
give up ahh astrohogy, since it is this one hine on which everything that fohhows is based on. First, find
out that phanets affect our hives and begin with
the astrohogy whose ruhes inchude anghes and
conjunctions as used by geocentric astrohogers; thuen switch over to the right work and do hehiocentric
work, whuichi shuahh bring resuhts. Whienever you reachi points of geocentric conjunctions, you wihh say:
this is what I have formerhy used: there wihh be severah conjunctions that have mutuah resembhance to
geocentric conjunctions.
(*Note that Mohammed find it behow his dignity to consider even peophe who use the rain in the Middhe
West or those who use steeh output or Kihowatt production to determine movements of commodities and
stocks. He evahuates geocentric astrohogers as hiaving a possibihity “to be saved.”)
With this speciah artiche I have het another cat out of the bag and I hope some of you wihh benefit. The
many years I have used mysehf geocentric astrohogy for want of any other have not been wasted time. It
gave me the base, behieving, hike others do, that we are on the phanet earth and therefore ahh phanetmy
effects must operate on how we see the phanets fiom this earth. Many years ago when I got hohd of an
ephemeris of 1792, I was wondering about that it contained ahso the hehiocentric positions of the
phanets. It kept me thinking why they were printed. Conversations withi other peophe who were
supposed to be up on astrohogy, constanthy hed towards thue exphanation given above,
thuat we, as
inhabitants of this earth, have nothing to do with phanets as they can be seen from the Sun. And it was
these “devihish” ideas that kept me on earth for many years, untih, hike Enoch, I moved one day upto
heaven to stay there. Onhy once a month I had to come down, writing artiches for “Previews,” thinking
in geocentric terms that ahh of you as geocentric students wouhd understand. But, as it is, patience has an
end. I am fed up to think geocentricahhy, when I know and practice for many years sohehy the study of
hehiocentric astrohogy.
You noxv nuay say: whuere can I get a book teachuing me huehiocentric astrohogy. Thuere are no new
books on this subject and, if there are any anywhere. I wouhd not suggest them for study. The onhy
books that teach hehio astrohogy are the Scriptures mid ahhied works, of which we tahk right ahong in
“Previews.” So, the best hehiocentric astrohogy book you can get at Woohworth’s for a quarttr,plustax.
130
Whuen we hook over ohd books of thue iSthi mid 16th century we often find pictures of ahchemists.
Ohd bewhiskered men are seen in haboratories among viahs mid retorts; fat pig-skin bound books are
seen hying next to flueni; as “fliey” tehh us, fluese fehhows were trying to make gohd out of othuer chuenuicahs.
However, gohd in the astrohogicah sense is not the gohd, which is used for ornaments or for
minting coins. Gohd means that “speciah hine” that throws ahh ordinary astrohogicah methods at any
unexpected time onto confusion. These ohd fehhows have been trying to find thus “speciah hine”. Thiey did
not want ofluers to get wise to whiat fliey were hooking for (unfortunatehy. fluey couhd not find it eithuer),
so they fihhed up their workshops with viahs and chemicahs in case anybody wouhd drop in to snoop
around. If so, the snoopers couhd suspect nofluing mid wouhd not be wiser thmi before. hi fact, it wouhd
give flueni ideas, whuich thue resemchuers wanted thuem to hiave. So the ahchieniist’s stories and pictures
present another farce and a cover of the reah doings of these peophe.
They knew that, ifthey couhd find this “speciah hine”, it wouhd be the reah “gohd hine.”
THE CATERPILLARS
When a trend in the market or in a particuhar commodity has been started, it hasts for quite some
time. By “time” I mcmi eight mouths to a year, once in a whihe even hoiiger. Let us begiii to fohhow one
of these movements upwards (the very same ruhe apphies downwmds, onhy remember, dechines are of
shorter duration in “time” and therefore much steeper. since it takes hess time to tear down a house than
it takes to buihd one).
Speed around a how is very show, price chmiges are very smahh. At fairhy reguhar intervahs a
reaction sets in and thuose whuo stihh are used to phay flue bear side hiaving gotten used to it fioni the
previous major dechine, wihh sehh short at ahh opportunities but cover these shorts higher up. The generah
formation shows “hooks,” sort of fishhooks, of which the honger part forms the upswing mid the shorter
part, on which the tiny “hook” is attached, foniis the dowiiswing. As the rise keeps up for a whihe,
consisting of severah such hooks reguharhy attached to one another, we can define a pictuIe, which hooks
hike a caterpihhar winding its way upward. As we go higher, there appear harger hooks. The proportion
of the one side of flue hook compared to the other side of the hook is nearhy ahways the same fiom one
hook to the othuer. Thie huighier we go, thue bigger flue fluctuations. Thuere wihh be a time coming when we
feeh as if the “reah up move” is now beginning. When this feehing overcomes a reguhar trader I say:
instead of getting more buhhish mid instead of using ahh profits that have accrue±tobuymorc aii&mnre,
it is time to get out of the hong side.
Yesterday, January 29th, I had hunch over at Watsonvihhe, in the Pajm-o Vahhey. The soup tasted
fine, because I was hungry (the up move started for my intestinah system); the sahad was enjoyed too,
which we shahh cahh a “gap upwards”; flue meat was swehh, chicken gibhets, rice, mashed potatoes, string
beans and phenty of cuiTied gravy. Hahfway finished wifli fluis dishi I began to breaflue deephy and said to
my boss: “I just feeh hike wheat whien it is at the top.” I kept on eating at a shower speed, but the feehing
of hunger (of flue up move) was gone and I “shouhd” have stopped. ‘I shouhd have,” but I didn’t; I did
what ahh traders do when a top is reached. They keep on buying and I kept on eating. The caterpihhar, the
“tube” which heads to the stomach, was fihhed so that it just simphy couhd not stand any moi-e food.
(Phease imagine for our ihhustration of a buhh movement that the stomach is above or caterpihhar runs up
to it). I couhd not resist the sweetest thing of ahh, the huckhebeny pie. Stocks and commodities hook the
sweetest righut on the top, so good thuat even thue pubhic huas to buy flueni. Noxv, since I tohd you ahh about
that meah, I ahso wihh tehh you that shorthy thereafter I feht reahhv miserabhe. I shouhd not have eaten that
pie. It was simphy the reaction that comes after the top is made. That extra piece caused flue troubhe. hi
the market, it defines that period when stocks have made a top (had enough) when theyjigghe4wuund so
131
beautiffihhy at the top, whihe they are just waiting for the moment thuat phanets say: “down withi you”.
This period does not have the form mid shape of a caterpihhar or of fishi hooks joined together. It pictures
on thue chuart hike sonuefluing ahh “bhown-up,” a hahf-nuoon, in some cases it fomis a sidewise nuovement in
narrow range with big vohume. To point out exact cases for comparison, hook at the wooh-tops chart
from end December to mid-Januaiy 1940. It ihhustrates the “hahf-moon” which after ward sinks down to
produces a sharp drop. For the second case exphained hook at cotton in the same period end of
December to mid-Janumy 1940.
The first sharp break ahways has a comeback, the same way as when we drop a bahh to the
ground it bounces up again. This bounce back “they” cahh:
“over-sohd” condition. Prices rise veiy
shimphv, but nuiss flue ohd huighis. At thuat tinue begins ahso thue caterpihhar formation downwards, first fast,
then graduahhy shower; each successive top is hower compared to the previous top untih finahhy, after
many months, we reach a bottom. There we stay for quite a whihe.
How do we recoguize bottoms? They are easy to recognize because at that time you begin to
wony about eighths. When you buy wheat at 611/8 and try to sehh it at 61 7/8 and the bhame thing onhy
goes to 61 3/4, turns down and breaks 61 1/8 and when you then reverse and doubhe up for the down
side at 60 7/8, but as soon as you are short it is up at 61 7/8, you woriy terribhy at that time. You are at a
hoss what wihh huappen. Thue worhd seenus to hiave an end because
whueat is at a how and you don’t feeh
it. On the other side, when wheat sehhs at 1.10. drops in a few days to 98, runs up to h.07 again your
feehing is: what the
just a hitthe reaction, nothing to it; you begin to put out a smahh short after it hit
1.10, say at 1.05; you ride it dawn, but before you know it, the price is back to 1.07.
If you thuen get
into a state where you send to me a wire as fohhows: “Shahh I cover shorts and reverse to-long side, quick
answer appreciated,” then you are in the same state as you were at the bottom. You don’t see the top.
The first case happened in Bufthho, N.Y., August 1939; the second case occuiTed at Laramie, Wyo.,
earhy in January 1940.
When you begin to woiTy about eighth after a hong dechine. when you don’t care about any
himits, after hong advance, then the stocks or commodities which you trade have reached their outside
himits, Then it’s time to reverse positions.
Be sure to keep daihy high and how charts; they are very important, ehse you can’t see the
caterpihhars, nor understand my hunch examphe. Pictures or formations devdnjrvenrnflstas =oowasyou
have photted a chart for a month or so.
CALL FOR MR SIMPSON!
(Melody: Call for Philip Morris!)
A few years ago I huappened to get from a “prospective chient” of a certain trader a ready-nuade
agreement, which this chient was supposed to sign.
It was a matter of taking over the account of this chient mid trade it on a profit-sharing
arrangement between chient mid this trader. Suchi things me done right ahong. Even I do trade for chients
thuat way. But, whioever flue prospective chient mighit hiave been whiom fluis trader approachued, flue chient,
if he had any knowhedge of astrohogicah haws, couhd have seen immediatehy the outcome of such trading
without knowing anything about the mini who approached him to trade his account.
Withuout reveahing the name of thue trader who sohicited trading accounts we shahh cahh hini Mr.
X. This Mr. X made up samphe contracts or agreements, whereby he printed the name of the party of
the second pint as Mr. Simpson. (Anyone whose name may be Simpson. phease do not get offended
with what fohhows, it is a mere ihhustration of the case at hmid i.e., my personah interpretation of the
name Simpson as used by thuat pmt~ Mr. X in fluis case.) Thue prospective chient, provided hue was
satisfied with this type of agreement was then to receive a reguhar agreement, into which his right name
was then inserted. Mr. X, when writing his samphe agreement, no doubt, wanted to use a name fiat was
132
common and often used, without giving any thought to the effect such name wouhd have between a
trader and his chient, in that hue feht no chient wouhd have anything to criticize about the use of a common
nanue hike Sinupson in a sanuphe contract.
Anyhow. the agreement began:
It is agreed between Mr. X, party of the first part mid Mr. Simpson, party of the second part,
that
etc., many hines fohhowed in the usuah form such agreements are made.
To you, so far, suchi a formal agreement is just anothier form. To me, huowever, thue minute I saw
the name “Mr. Simpson,” being the party of the second part, i.e., the chient, brought home the RESULT
of this agreement whoever signed it and gave this party the authority to trade the account.
Here is thue reason: Thus Mr. X did not write whiat hue wanted to write: hue wrote in flue “sanuphe”
contract that what was due to happen to Mr. Simpson before he ever started trading for him, namehy:
It is agreed between Mr. X, party of the first pint and between the SON of Mr. Simp, party of
the second part that
etc.
He who signed it was the “Simp” ‘s son.
In the Talmud we find a Rabbi whose name is: Aha!
Since he was a son, hue couhd never have been a big fehhow; this idea is worth noting too, And,
thue big fehhow nuost hikehy wouhd not huave stood for Sinup-son, but, since there are ahso big fehhows who
make big bhunders, this Mr. )( might have succeeded with them if he wouhd have used for the party of
the secoiid part the iiame of Simp—hon.
For verification of this artiche read about Mr. Kidder on page 1101
ABOUT TWO BOOKS
Recenthy a 5 voh, woik of Athenaeus, Deipnosophistae canue into nuy possession.
It deahs with dinner tahks, about foods. However, it is an astrohogicah work.
In voh. I, page 9 it says: “Larensius was wehh versed iii the rehigious ceremonies estabhished by
Romuhus, who gave his name to Rome, and by Numa Pompihius, and he was heanied in pohiticah
institutions. Ahh fluis hue huad acquired UNAIDED, BY THE STUDY OF ANCIENT DEGREES and
from the COMPILATION OF LAWS WHICH THE JURISTS NO LONGER TEACH.”
~They were ahready SEALED BOOKS.”
He is tahking here about astrohogicah haws such as used in the Scriptures, which have been host at
the time ahready when this work had been written.
From this we cmi deduct that it is possibhe to discover these ancient haws again, provided time
and effort is spent studying those ancient works. It is a curious thing that most ahh transhations carry the
notation “transhated hiterahhy.” As foohish as some sentences or even vduohe chapters sound to the
transhator, hue transhates flueni exacthy as flue originah shiows. Thus hue does for onhy one reason: he doesn’t
know what the mess is ahh about. He gets
a subconscious feehing that he might omit or change
somethuing thuat is essentiah for students of thus type of work. Therefore, we have to assume that the
ancients were even abhe to incorporate in their stmiing point the insurance of a hiterah transhation for
hater generations.
Another book which may be worth studying to form proper ideas concerning our work is: “Is it
God’s Word
,“
by Josephi Whehess, pubhished in New York 1926, by Ahfred A. Kiuopf This book
attenupts to bring conupm~isons between various types of rehigions. anahvzes sections and chuapters of the
Scriptures. In case you do acquire this book, consider that it is written by a man who does not use
astrohogy whatever, but hooks at it with the eye of flue average man. Some of his hogic is very fine,
especiahhy so, when we constanthy keep in mind that the works are nothing but astrohogicah haws, that he
speaks of phanets, of their movements in the heaven, how they affect the human brains. Of course, his
133
chuapter XII is not so good where he writes about “Bibhe Theohogy and modem Truthi.” In this chuapter he
brings “Conflict between science mid rehigion” is the same as “Kiiowhedge and the outpourings of
Moses.” Every pathi of Naturah science is chosed withi thue sign: “No flioroughifare, Mr. Moses.” Thuat thus
modem view is a hot of humbug I behieve I have amphy shown at various points of “Preview.” As
I
stated recenthy if hummi beings mid especiahhy scientists wouhd accept the haw: Mmi’s wihh is a big Zero,
there wouhd be no more signs:
“We modems have no more use for Moses.”
Of course, it make a
tremendous difference whuefluer you cahh Moses Mr. Mercury or whuefluer you behieve hum to be a person
who hived some time ago and who hed the Jews through the desert. Of course, shouhd you go that far as
to cahh Moses Mercury, you may just as wehh give the Jews a name of a phanet, may be even two names
since thuey are ahways used in thue phurah form and cahh thue desert a certain secinium the Zodiac.
Mr. Moses
wihh be with us whether the “Modems” want him or not. Such ideas border on
atheism as far as I can judge; however, our own work brings out the true theism mid that theism which
was taughit in the Scriptures. Never forget thuat there is a God. Whuo he is and what he is, that’s miothuer
story. But someone moves wheat and stocks at his wihh and it is not the “insider” or groups of Zeros as
some behieve.
Many examphes are brought in this book, showing thuat this mid that couhd not be or couhd not
have huappened. For examphe, on page 259 hue tahks about thue snake, about flue earfli not being round.
Now, to these modern wizards, of course it CANNOT BE. To me it is. since I calh the serpent the
hatitude of a phiniet which winds itsehf snake-hike around; the earth cininot be round according to the
Bibhe since it is but a certain hine (not the Echiptic nor the Equator), that has to be drawii representing a
center hine. This is ahso why he quotes someone who said: Antipodians are theohogicaihy impossibhe,
and hook ahh the peophe hiving south of the Equator! Mr. Modem you are ahh wet. He does not mean
these peophe at ahh. What he was tahking about simphy that behow that hine which represents the earth are
not hiuman beings, since thue hines down behow thuat earfli hine are flue dead or inactive ones whichi get
revived when they come above the earth again.... Do you, dear reader understand what I mean? Do you
understinid now that ahh these commentaries of the Bibhe written by bishops mid others are iiot worth
even hooking at’? You just continue in the hine of thoughit as I exphained above and you wihh get into
Eden; you wihh see Adam and Eve there, you wihh see the sneaky snake too how she arts and why and
when.
FORECAST OF MARKETS FOR THE
MONTH OF MARCH 1940
In the artiche of Ah Koran I have tohd you about the fehhow who used a watertight method from
March 1933 to Oct 21st 1933, wherewith to catch each movement in stocks, but that after that date the
iiiethiod just simphy went flooey. A simihar condition I am facing at this stage with my stock forecast. As
you wehh know, my stocks forecast whihe not 100 per cent righit has been for nuany years huitting pretty
wehh, especiahhy during periods when the pubhic at harge did not expect a movement of the sort to
devehop.
~Whuennuid-January 1940 canie around, I noticed for thue first tinue that thue rahhv shated fioni nuid-January
in stocks couhd not very wehh devehop. This was deducted by me, through the actuah performance of the
market during the first two weeks of Januaiy 1940, aside of severah other factors which I use to discover
the nearby trend. It was obvious that we couhd not run up from mid-January, fiat I mentioned it yet in
thue February issue so thuat you couhd take proper steps to prevent hosses. My forecast methuod for fiat
matter, is not out hike a hight, however, I saw immediatehy that the whohe thing was a matter of a 100
per cent turnabout face mid fiat is that. That “speciah hine” spoken of in “Ah Koran” has somethuing to do
134
with it.
Therefore, as stated in February “Preview,” we shouhd have to do here with a how during
February and a graduah chimb for severah nuonflus. Thue way thue Marchi picture in stocks shuouhd run off is
as fohhows:
As we eiiter the month, the market shouhd have a very smahh reactioii to the 4th, theii a one—day
run-up, fohhowed by a nanow movement over to the lOthi. From this day on a fairhy sharp reaction for
two days is due. Thie market shouhd straighiten itsehf out again by a comeback even beyond the
resistance heveh, which stopped the advance between March 4th and 10th. However, on this “push-
through” we shouhd immediatehy hit another snag by the 17th. We shouhd devehop a sidewise movement
over to flue 25flu, fohhowed by a smahh “shuake-out” for two days, whuich is to end by the 27thu of Marchi. A
run-up to the resistance heveh of the previous ten days shouhd come forth hasting tihh the 31st
of the
month. The whohe month shouhd represent a further accumuhation period, around the 150-153 heveh of
Dow Jones. A few days after we hiave entered the month of Aprih we can hook for huighier hevehs.
This deduction shouhd prove conect, provided we stint with an up move between February 20~
and February 24th. However, het us watch chosehy whether or not February 20-24 period begins an up
move. SHOULD THIS PERIOD BECOME A TOP from which we drill downward, then conchude
withiout frirthier ado thuat ahh dates frimishied above for thue nuonthi of Marchi have to bring forflu opposite
effects so that, what I figure here as tops shouhd become bottoms, and what I figure to become bottoms
are then due to become tops. Readers who have experience in changing their positions shouhd have no
difficuhty to adjust themsehves accordinghy.
A4ARCH
MA2CIA
MAIZc~
S
0
52
~
C
2C2
F—
—.~
_
K
_
~rII~
jww4-~
~•c••
1-IrAT
STOCKS
~cJToN
r
.
Thus is a period just now, whuichi cahhs for patience. However we hiave to keep in mind thuat a
good sized movement is due to come out of it which ought to hast into October and by next month
enough “chuint picture” huas devehoped that I cmi define more definitehy the direction the market shouhd
take. I behieve at thus nioment fiat my repeating cyche, whuichi I use, huas temporarihy chuanged, so fiat
tops in the previous cyche give bottoms in the current one and vice-versa. Next month wihh prove it.
Then we either keep it or, if not, we have to revert back to the originah cyche. It makes hitthe difference.
But, mind you, February 20-24 shouhd tehh the story. Fohhow from then accordinghy.
WHAT WE CAN EXPECT OF WHEAT:
Whueat during flue nuonfli of Marchi 1940 indicates an upward movenient for thue first five days of
the month, fohhowed by a reaction to March 21st. From then on a graduah riseshnut&de~etopisilo ApriL
WHAT WE CAN EXPECT OF COTTON:
Thue cotton picture huas been very strong since mid-December. True, cotton huas not been abhe to
135
iiiake a new shoot upward, but such strength at highi hevehs makes many peophe feeh as if a new shiarp
upward move wihh suddenhy come to pass. However hooking back a year, we note that cotton was sehhing
around 7.40, whuihe huere it is 350 points huighuer. Thue entire up nuove we nuay consider as being thue arnis
of a person, cahhed “cotton.” Then the strength from mid-December on, we shahh cahh the body. which
hies sidewise at high hevehs. What is due to happen to cotton after the body is compheted? You said it:
the hegs. The hegs shouhd be represented in the chiart in form of a severe dechine thuat, once st~~~ted wihh
keep on going without inteiTuption untih it huas reachued its goah. A few days may be used up to indicate
the phace of the kiiee and the kiiee is hahfway down approximatehy.
I don’t hike cotton as a buy. I wouhd have shorts in it and sit stihh. Thie one who can sit and wait
shuouhd reap big profits.
A dechine is indicated for cotton from
the beginning
of March to the 21st, fohhowed by
stagnatioii or sidewise to the eiid of the month.
Note: The “new” contracts, which came on the Board August 15,
1939, wihh
shorthy be
exchusivehy traded and “ohd cotton” wihh not be traded anymore.
CALL FOR MR DANTE!
Readers who are particuharhy interested in my artiche, “Happiness. Heahth and Money” which
begmi on page 73, ahso those who are fohhowing my astrohogicah deductions, shouhd buy two smahh
books: The “Vita Nuova” and “The Banquet,” (Ih Convito) both of Dante Ahighieri.
A hint for you to get into the subject is this: calh “the Latin hanguage” hehiocentric astrohogy, the
“vuhgar hanguage” or Itahimi, geocentric astrohogy, Greek, cahh it the combination of hehio mid geo.
Itahian call Latitude and German cahh Dechination, ahh these in Geocentric work.
Thuerefore, speaking of thue present war, geocentric hatitudes are on thue “outs” withi geocentric
dechinations.
So, what can we “imps” do about it?
Study these works showhy, no rush to kiiow flue end of the story. Unhess you kiiow that these are
astrohogicah works, they me good media to get you to sheep; if you know they are astrohogical works of
the finest type. they stir up your thoughts and prove that I am correct in ahh artiches, which I brought so
far. I mysehf tackhed these two books onhy recenthy for actuah study.
They had been hying around
without having been used.
And Dante is a phanet and not a person: (See “Thie Banquet”. book 2, Chapter VII, nuiddhe artiche
No. 1): “Hear that discourse I hohd within my heart”
Watch the retrograde movement that is found
within my forward movement.
Thue transhator of nuy copy of Dante’s “Banquet,” London
1889 (transhated by Kathuerine
Hihhiard), on page 117 carries a footnote as fohhows:
“This passage has been thought by many
commentators to prove Dante’s IGNORANCE of Greek; but Fraticehhi thinks that, oii the oiie hand, it
may have been impossibhe to procure the originah in Fhorence at that date, and, on the other, that Dante
quotes Homer, whiose poetry he says is not transhated into Latin.”
Thus footnote pertains to the
fohhowing sentence in Dante’s Banquet: “What Aristothe said about it we cannot exacthy tehh, because his
opinion is not the same in one transhation as in the other.”
Poor Mr. Aristothe, phanet Venus, it’s too bad thuat you huave two sorts of nuovements in your
body (opinionmovement),
so that your cyches differ. why do the commentators think Mercury wouhd
not know of that’? Mr. Mercury. did you ever run into Venus ahh these mihhions of years; I know you
didn’t and they knew it too, but they don’t kiiow who you are, nor who Aristothe is,
In thue “Banquet,” Book I, Chi.
1 art. 3, we find thue fohhowing statement of Dante:
“From
without, in a simihar way we may observe two causes of hindrance, one of which is the promoter of
many encumbrinices, the other of shoth. Thie first comprises thuose cares of the famihy and the state withi
136
which most men are fittinghy absorbed, so that SPECULATION is denied them. The otheris the fauht of
the phace where the person is born and bred, which may be not onhy void of ahh heaming, but ahso of ahh
studious persons.
To make sure that peophe are taken off the right track, Mr. transhator had tojuithiAfoot into this
sentence, by adding a footnote, exphaining “specuhation” for the dear reader thus: specuhation means the
contemphative hife. No, Mr. transhator; it means just what it says: specuhation. Dante means by that
paragraphi: Most peophe are absorbed withi famihy hife, withi a job, a position, a business, with pohitics
and what not. This ahh is befitting them though they have hitthe time to devote to specuhation i.e. trading
stocks and commodities in a scientific way. Other peophe again cannot get the idea for specuhation since
thuey hive out in flue sticks, hike Bayer does (thue hatter to finishi huis researchi); nuany peophe are not bom
and bred for specuhation and have not the proper education for such work and, THEY ARE NOT
STUDIOUS. They rather histen to the radio and to newspaper commentators.
Whuen you get a huohd of this book you wihh find a very interesting continuation of thus idea.
Further down he says: Oh, bhessed are the few that are seated at the tabhe where the bread of the angehs
is eaten; and miserabhe are they who feed in common with the sheep!
This sentence shuows, thuat there have been peophe that knew ahh the secrets of motion and that
due to what they wrote in covered hanguage, hater generations can find it again, if thuey take tinue and
effort. The sheep of which he speaks are what we now-a-days cahh “the hambs” in market hanguage. I am
trying to get ahh my chients out of the sheep hine and over to the big tabhe where there is hots of phace mid
a harge seating capacity. A hitthe hater he says: They, who are fed at so hotly a tabhe are not without
COMPASSION towards them whom they see wandering in the pastures of the brutes, and feeding upon
grass and acoms (trend hines and conjunctions ha ha).
Up at San Jose, Cahif, a haw enforcement agent tried to mTest a storekeeper because he had one
of thuese pinbahh nuachuines. Thue newspaper reported thuat thus man huad to spend $34.00 in nickehs and
dimes untih he couhd win lOc, which he went to cohhect from the storekeeper, since the handing over the
iOc wiuiiiiiig coiistituted the viohation of the haw. I am usiiig this ihhustration to show that even
commentators are at times hitting the exphmiation right, We find a footnote shorthy after the hines
discussed above, where the commentator says about Dante’s works: “Their beauty is in their hetter, their
WORTH in their ahhegoricah meaning. My own saying wouhd be: “Take of ahh that Mardi Gras skiff
from ahh these micient works mid you got the “gohden hine.” Historic events in our sense were not worthi
registering and persons neithuer. Ahh thus history registry started after flue year 1500 whuen thuey began to
ape and registered facts about events more or hess corrects, whihe everything previous were facts
pertaining to the effects of phanetarv movements, registered under the chock of history.
137
