PATTERNS AND ELLIPSES
BY
LARRY JACOBS
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PATTERNS AND ELLIPSES
PREFACE
IDEALISTIC PERCEPTIONS
WHAT IS IMPLIED BY TIME?
THE RULES OF TIME
MOVEMENT IN THE UNIVERSE
HOW THE MARKET PLACE WORKS
TYPES OF PEOPLE WHO BUY AND SELL STOCK
PERSONAL FEELINGS
OVERTRADING
HOW DO YOU KNOW WHAT THE MARKET WILL DO
TOMORROW?
LAWS OF THE MARKET
METHODS OF BUYING
KNOW YOUR STOCKS
KNOW THE TYPES OF CHARTS TO USE
BAR CHART TIME SEPARATION
BAR CHART – STENGTH
BAR CHART - SWING
CANDLESTICK CHARTS
GANN SWING BAR CHART
SWING CHART IMPOSED ON REGULAR BAR CHART
GANN SWING CHART
BARROS SWINGS
LINE CHARTS
RANGE CHARTS
POINT AND FIGURE CHARTS
KAGI SWING CHART
CALENDAR DAYS VS TRADING DAYS
GANN FAN ON CALENDAR BASED CHARTS
GANN FAN ON TRADING DAY BASED CHARTS
GANN FAN ON CALENDAR BASED CHARTS WITH REACTIONS
GANN FAN ON TRADING DAY BASED CHARTS WITH REACTIONS
USING THE GANN FAN WITH ASTROLOGY
ZERO POINT – WEEKLY CHARTS ON DEC OATS
SQUARING RANGE – MONTHLY CHART ON DEC COCOA
GANN FAN GEOMETRIC ANGLES
GANN SQUARES
GANN SQUARES EXTENDED
THE BIBLICAL CIRCLE
35-DAY CALENDAR TIME CYCLE – DUPONT
SAME TIME COUNTS
50-WEEKLY CYCLE
37.5 WEEKLY CYCLE
25 WEEKLY CYCLE
17 WEEKLY CYCLE
12.5 WEEKLY CYCLE
8.5 WEEKLY CYCLE
6.25 WEEKLY CYCLE
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 21.87 DAYS
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 14.58 DAYS
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 10.93 DAYS
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 7.29 DAYS
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 3.65 DAYS
ASPECTS
ASPECTS TIED TO CYCLES
SUN SEXTILE MARS
SUN SEXTILE JUPITER
SUN SEXTILE SATURN
SUN SEXTILE URANUS
SUN SEXTILE NEPTUNE
SUN SEXTILE PLUTO
VENUS SEXTILE MARS
VENUS SEXTILE JUPITER
VENUS SEXTILE SATURN
VENUS SEXTILE URANUS
VENUS SEXTILE NEPTUNE
VENUS SEXTILE JUPITER
ASTROLOGICAL TIMING
VISUAL EPHEMERIS
ASTROLOGICAL CRITICAL DEGREES
GANN PLANETARY LINES
SQUARE OF NINE
STATIC SQUARE OF NINE
PYRAPOINT
CONCENTRIC CIRCLES - TIME
CONCENTRIC CIRCLES – PRICE
FIBONACCI ARCS
FIBONACCI FAN
PRICE EXTENSIONS
PRICE RETRACEMENTS
TIME EXTENSIONS
TIME RETRACEMENTS
ANDREW’S PITCHFORK
ADX INDICATOR
BOLLINGER BANDS
COMMODITY CHANNEL INDEX
KELTNER CHANNELS
MACD INDICATOR
MOVING AVERAGE BANDS
MOVING AVERAGES and CYCLES
MOVING AVERAGE MOMENTUM
PARABOLIC STOP AND REVERSE
5/25 PRICE OSCILLATOR
RATE OF CHANGE
RELATIVE STRENGTH INDEX
STOCHASTICS
TEMPERATURE
WILLIAMS %R
LINEAR REGRESSION
HISTORICAL VOLATILITY RATIO
STANDARD DEVIATION
VOLUME ADVANCE DECLINE OSCILLATOR
MIDAS INDICATOR
MONEY FLOW INDEX
OPEN INTEREST
VOLUME
PRICE MOVES
GAPS
OTHER GAPS
ELLIPSES
DIFFERENT SIZES OF ELLIPSES
CHANNELS WITH ELLIPSES
CHANNELS WITH ELLIPSES – CHANGE OF TREND
SIDEWAYS TRENDING CHANNEL
CHANGE OF DIRECTION CHANNEL
FORMATIONS – EGG OF COLUMBUS
EXAMPLE OF DINNER WITH REAL-CHART
ELLIPSES WORK WITH STANDARD FORMATIONS
BROADENING BOTTOM FORMATION
BROADENING TOP FORMATION
RIGHT ANGLE FORMATION
RIGHT ANGLE FORMATION – 5 POINTS TOUCHING
RIGHT ANGLE DESCENDING FORMATION
BROADENING ASCENDING WEDGE FORMATION
THREE BUMP BOTTOM
THREE BUMP TOP
CUP AND HANDLE
GAP & BOUNCE
DIAMOND TOPS AND BOTTOMS
DOUBLE BOTTOMS
DOUBLE BOTTOM FAILURE
DOUBLE TOP
PENNANTS
FLAGS
HEAD AND SHOULDERS BOTTOMS
HEAD AND SHOULDERS TOP
INSIDE BAR
ISLAND REVERSALS
MEASURED OBJECTIVE DOWN
MEASURED OBJECTIVE UP
ONE-DAY REVERSAL
OUTSIDE BAR
TWO REVERSE BARS
TWO REVERSE BARS ON WEEKLY CHARTS
RECTANGLE BOTTOMS
RECTANGLE TOPS
ROUNDED BOTTOM
ROUNDED TOP
ROUNDING CORRECTION UPTREND
ROUNDED CORRECTION DOWNTREND
ASCENDING TRIANGLE
DESCENDING TRIANGLE
SYMMETRICAL BOTTOM TRIANGLES
SYMMETRICAL TOP TRIANGLES
TRIPLE BOTTOMS
TRIPLE TOP
FALLING WEDGE
RISING WEDGE
REVERSAL BAR
SUMMARY
PREFACE
This book concerns itself with a highly technical subject, the subject of
technical analysis of the financial market. This book specifically deals with
ellipses and pattern formations used for trading the markets. It also covers
many other technical analysis tools that can be used effectively by the
trader. This book is not intended for the casual reader, but for the student of
the market that is willing to spend the necessary time for study, research
and back testing of this methodology.
This book will reveal the mathematics underlying the subject matter and
therefore I consider it a scientific book for that reason. This book teaches a
methodology that gives you a clear way of detecting and identifying the
course and the expanse of a movement in the market. This tactic is
completely foreign to the average investor or trader.
There will be an effort to educate the reader to partially divulge still other
mathematical distant ideas behind the stock and futures market when it is
allowable in the book. The main objective of the book is to train the readers
mind to understand the narrowly defined area of the subject matter of
ellipses and pattern charts. The methods and rules used in the book will be
based on sound fundamental laws of nature using market trading tactics.
This book will strive to unlock the principal laws of movement of the
markets.
 
IDEALISTIC PERCEPTIONS
Day after day we visualize pictures and objects in our mind. We draw on
these objects from everyday images, which we see and are absorbed in our
mind and applied to our everyday activities. Instinctively we ascertain these
images in our mind so that we might draw conclusions as to what they
make up and how they can be used in our interaction with our daily
activities.
Depending on our individual ability and wholehearted observation we can
move forward to a higher level of the science of visualizing images from
recurring study of them. Some people might call this practical experience.
This practical experience must be combined with thought to elevate the
student to a higher and keener level of expertise of recognizing objects. The
more experience an person has in recognizing objects and analyzing them,
the more he is apt to be successful in this endeavor.
It’s almost impossible to visualize a car traveling on the highway upside
down. Your past experience of seeing or driving a car has convinced you
that it is impossible for a car to travel upside down, except for the possible
exception of it being turned over in a moving accident.
Similar comparisons can be made is visualizing other objects and there
movements. Your past experience causes your mind to restrain your ability
to mentally picture hypothetical images.
In this book the reader will be taught to recognize images of patterns and
ellipses and how they can be used to detect changes of trends. It is
extremely important that the reader allows his mind to fully develop in this
area. This can only be done with extensive study and visualizing these
patterns and ellipses on a continuing basis. Repetition is the name of the
game. The more you do it, the better you will get at it. 
The trader must pay attention to the market. He must know when to buy and
sell by watching the market’s stop and go signals. Psychology plays an
important part in the profits and loses of a trader. If a trader buys a security
when the market is in a downtrend and experiences a loss, he must learn
from it and not do the same mistake again. The pattern he visualized was
incorrect and he must analyze what went wrong and not do it again. Some
traders are stubborn and feel the market cheated them and they’ll get their
money back next time using the same signal and doubling up. The trader
did not watch the stoplight. The same patterns occur over and over again.
The trader will only begin to be successful when he starts to pay attention
and remembers the patterns whatever they may be.
WHAT IS IMPLIED BY TIME?
Things subsist or events come about because we know what has happened
in the past. What is and what exists only because of their connection with
other things or what other things have happened. Therefore everything that
exists or happens is then in someway connected to everything else that has
exists or has happened. This is an endless sequence to infinity.
What is duration? It’s the lapse of time between the launching of an event
and the termination of the event. This duration is therefore called time as
we know it. Time is as we understand it, is a line from the present that
extends itself to an end in the future. As time progresses each present
moment becomes part of the past. The future never ends as time continues
to roll steadily forward. Imagine in your mind’s eye a river flowing from a
far-away past into an endless future.
Visualizing an abstract river does not bring us anything helpful. Nothing is
achieved if an abstract picture is substituted for a time line. Everything that
happens occurs in connection with something else. Time is as the crow
flies, a straight line.  The flow of time does not carry events and happenings
with it. Events and happenings rather occur with or along the path of time.
Much discussion could be developed along this line of thinking. We would
ultimately arrive again at our beginning line of thought.
Herein this book lies a possible explanation of the concept of time and how
to apply it to trading the markets. W.D. Gann said in analyzing the markets,
time is the most important factor. It doesn’t really matter where a trader
buys or sells a stock or futures contract, but rather when. It the trader buys
and market time is moving up, he will make move. If the trader shorts and
market time is moving down then the trader will make money. It’s not
important that a trader buys the exact bottom and sells at the exact top. Only
idiots say they bought the exact bottom or sold at the exact top. It doesn’t
really matter. All that does matter is the profit is made on the transaction.
THE RULES OF TIME
Time falls into the formation of nature and substance. The following are the
rules of time:
1) The universe is infinite and unlimited in matter.
2) Time is unlimited and has no beginning and is without end.
3) Matter is everywhere and it’s in constant motion.
4) The universe’s motion is circular.
Copernicus, a famous astrologer, announced a long time ago that the Earth
rotated around the Sun. This was directly contrasting all the previous views
that the Sun rotated around the Earth.
Since the universe’s motion is circular, time and the universe affects time, it
stands to reason that time’s straight line in therefore affected by the
circulation motion of the universe.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MOVEMENT IN THE UNIVERSE
Anybody that has movement in the universe has the tendency by natural
law to keep moving in a straight line until something interferes with that
movement and compels it to change.
When my grandfather was a young man, there was a national contest in the
United States to develop a perpetual motion machine. That’s a machine that
would continue to move once started until infinity. He worked on his
machine for months and months, just to find out that it was impossible. His
machine and everyone else’s failed due to friction and gravity. The law of
nature is that everything in motion is subject to natural decay unless some
additional energy is given to the object from time to time. It is therefore
impossible to create a mechanism that will produce surplus energy, which
would make it possible to stay continuously in motion.
When we construct a chart of a stock or futures contract we also become
conscious of the fact that like laws are in force. The figure below shows
daily chart Dupont. Something caused the stock to decline at point A down
in to B. At B something major caused the stock to take off and move
quickly. The movement slowed at point C where it declined into point D
and up into point E where their was a complete loss of motion. It then had a
sharp drop into F. It recovered back up into G and back down again into H.
Something new then caused the stock to move up sharply from H. See the
chart below.
The free will choice of man, which causes him to buy and sell at different
time periods in the stock, was the underlying reason why it moved. Buying
and selling pressure is what causes the market to move. The will of the
majority of traders who make their decisions on their own or being advised
by television or advisors is moves the market.
The universe is a well-arranged body and all the objects in it provide some
purpose. There is a reason for the existence of each body. Everybody in the
universe in some way interacts with all other bodies in the universe. There
is really no accident in the universe. Everything happens for a reason.
Let’s look at all the bodies in the universe. Notice all the spherical motion
of all the planets around the Sun. Our solar system is part of a much large
system and it rotates around other planets and Suns. Everybody in the
universe has some relation to other bodies in the universe in some way, no
matter how slight.
The stock market and futures markets also have similar characteristics. For
example the movement of the S&P500 Index has an effect on how the
Utilities or Transportation Groups move. The Utilities has a direct Effect on
a particular utility stock and to a lesser extent and effect on a Transportation
Group individual stock. Even an individual stock has a slight effect on the
S&P500 Index and the Utilities and Transportation Groups. The CRB Index
has an effect on all Futures Groups like meats, metals, grains, foods and the
like. The individual groups all have an effect on individual futures. The
individual futures contracts have a slight affect on the CRB Index and the
Future Groups. The CRB Index also has an effect on the S&P Index and
vice versa. The seasonal weather changes have an effect on the individual
futures contracts and groups and well as an impact on the S&P500 Index
and stock categories and individual stocks. Everything in the markets is in
some way directly or indirectly related to everything else in a gigantic circle
of movement. The smallest of these circles is related to the larger circles of
movement and progressive growth. The bigger circles have more impact
than the smaller circles. Every market in some way acts like a wheel of
another wheel. See the following chart.
The diagram only represents a small part of the number of circles working
with each other in the markets, world, planetary system and the universe.
The Sun and the Moon are continually changing their motion and have the
biggest impact on Earth of all the planetary bodies in our universe since the
Sun is the largest body and the moon is the closest to the Earth. The Moon
completes one revolution around the Earth every 27 days. The revolution of
the Earth around the Sun takes 365 days. These revolutions of course give
you two of the most important cycles in the markets. The passageway of the
earth about the Sun is not straight to the East. It has a progress movement at
the same time from South to North and from North to South, bringing about
the important seasonal changes of summer and winter and fall and spring.
There are many in today’s market that label planetary movement relating to
cycles in the market as taboo and not any science as such. They maintain it
to be impossible and more like charlatanism. They don’t give it any kind of
name, but just ignore it. If these people would realize that planetary
movement and cycles relating to their movements are in the bible, they
might change their opinion. The bible is, of course, the most studied book
in the world! It’s written in every tongue in the world. The bible hid the
interpretation of the planets motions in stories that could be believed by
everyone, wealthy or pauper, scholarly professors or non-educated people.
Planets travel in ellipses, directly akin to a circle. The circle is in actual fact
an ellipse anyway. The one fact that you may not understand or know is that
human too are planets of a much smaller size, but never the less influenced
by the other bodies in the universe. Therefore they move in an elliptical
path and are influenced by other bodies moving in their paths.
 
 
 
HOW THE MARKET PLACE WORKS
The NYSE and NASDAQ are organizations, which facilitates an fair and
orderly regulated exchange of values of securities, stocks and bonds. The
trade between the buyer and the seller is not direct, but rather it is made
through the exchange that acts as an intermediary between the parties and
guarantees the payment and the reception of money for securities sold.
They accept no other responsibility except for the above. They buyer may
be in New York and the seller in Kansas. Each pay their commission
charges to brokers who act as agents for them. These brokers maintain
offices for the customers to send their certificates to and to get their money
and for the buyer to sent his money to and receive the certificates.
Newspapers, data services and Internet sites office quotes for all
transactions in the securities. Also offered are earnings and dividend
reports. Many also give opinions and ratings of the securities rates. Some
give buy and sell recommendations.
Generally in rough stock market times the public prefers to buy stocks that
pay dividends, until the dividend is cut, and then they sell the stock. In this
period of time appreciation of stocks is secondary to dividends.  Dividends
are most important. They feel that if they can hold a stock and it yields a
decent return, they can hold it until things get better.
Also in a rough market atmosphere, the public prefers to buy long rather
than to sell short. Each transaction is equal though. You can make just as
much shorting a stock as buying it. Professionals tend to be more attuned to
shorting than the public.
TYPES OF PEOPLE WHO BUY AND SELL
STOCK
There are several types of people who buy and sell stock. The majority of
stockholders are long-term buyers. They try to buy value and hold them for
long periods of time, even years. They usually never sell for several
reasons. The main reason they don’t sell is to avoid the tax they would have
to pay. They will ride a stock from $5 to $150 and not sell for tax reasons
just to have it then decline to $75.
The next type of stock buyer is the one that just buy low priced stocks.
They don’t determine if the stock has quality. They just want a low price
stock. They feel that the market will eventually move up because it is just
too low. These stocks are low for a reason. Many times these low priced
stocks just go bankrupt. Occasionally one will rebound due to a
fundamental development in the company.
The third type of trader buys stocks for swings in the market. This trader
will hold stocks from 3 days to a month. He is generally looking for stocks
that move with the trend. He buys when he thinks the price and value is low
and sells when he thinks the value and price art too high. This type of trader
also will have no reservation about shorting in the market since he is
looking for short-term swings of any type.
The last type of is the day-trader. He watches the screen constantly and tries
to make short-term profits on a few ticks or on news events. He listens to
CNBC and tries to make profits on short-term pops or declines. He trades
constantly and is afraid to be in the market overnight. He trades many times
during the day and the commissions eat him up. The life of one of these
traders is generally 3 months to 1 to 2 years, depending on how much
money he has. He will usually eventually loose all of his money. These
traders come and go. It’s amazing, but there is always a new one of these
type of traders that takes the place of one that went broke. The biggest killer
of this trader is overtrading. Commissions eat him up. Also this type of
trader has limited funds and has high anxiety about taking a trade overnight.
He takes unusually high risks and is over margined. He’ll make a short day-
trade an make a fraction of a point on a stock and turn around and loose 2-3
full points on another stock, just to have the first stock he purchased make a
really big move, he should have been in on.
The day-trader and the long-term buyers are the two ends of the market.
Neither one of these will usually make money in the market. Also the low
priced stock buyer rarely makes money, because this is a high-risk
endeavor. The trader who trades the swings in the market is the one that is
usually most successful, if he uses proven mathematical techniques. There
are some traders that use combinations of the above methods and their
success is tied to the success of the trading methodology applied to each
method.
 
PERSONAL FEELINGS
People who trade on personal feelings in the market usually loose their
money. It’s actually a personal weakness to think they can make solid buy
and sell decisions based on an internal hunch. Personal opinions are not
practicable for making money. Generally a person making these opinions is
right only 20% of the time. Occasionally you will find a person that actually
has good internal hunches that work, but they are few and far in between. 
These people have a gift and are usually rich and don’t need anyone’s
advice.  They usually buy massively amounts of low price stocks, which
advance to high prices. These people sell at the top and reap big profits.
This is an enormous gift of nature bestowed on them. Many of these people
are not conscious that they even have this gift.
Every single trader and investor needs to have solid advice or base his
decisions upon mathematical laws of trading. Experience with solid
mathematical laws is the secret to success in the market.
 
 
OVERTRADING
Overtrading as stated earlier is the biggest weakness you can have in the
market.   This has bankrupt more traders in the markets than any other
reason. Overtrading can take many forms. The first form of overtrading is
when a trader over margins his stock. When a downturn comes it wipes the
trader out with just a small move against him in the markets. He then has to
liquidate his positions before the market can recover. Fully margining is
especially dangerous in very volatile stocks with large swings.
Another form of overtrading is buying too large number of stocks to be able
to effectively follow. The trader spreads himself too thin, where he can’t
keep track of all of his holdings. It’s better to put your money in a handful
of high quality stocks than in 20 to 30 unknown stocks that you can’t follow
closely.
Of course, the biggest form of overtrading is just making too many trades
during the day. Also this excessive day trading causes the trader to take
small profits of less than 1 point and large losses of 2 to 3 points. These
large loses eventually eat up most of his capital and the remainder is eaten
up by commissions.
 
 
HOW DO YOU KNOW WHAT THE
MARKET WILL DO TOMORROW?
The biggest question in every investor’s mind is what will the market do
tomorrow, next week, next month or even next year. How can one arrange
his investments to take advantage of this market? If you watch and listen to
the CNBC television network, you will find that these are the two questions
that are asked almost every person being interviewed.
It’s a tragedy that most new people entering the market with tremendous
enthusiasm and high spirits will fail. They have many ideas on how to make
money in the markets and to achieve higher returns than other traders. 
Most of them, unfortunately, lose all of their money.  Some of them return
again, with new fresh capital, just to again lose it all.
There are a few traders spend the time and effort to study the mathematics
behind the market and to learn trading techniques before they trade. They
develop a trading methodology and fully back test it using historical data.
When they are ready they apply the trading techniques to the market with
money management and they succeed. These are extremely disciplined
traders. These traders know how succeed and they are equipped with the
right tools. These traders know that there is no scheme in trading the market
that works all of the time. Sometimes traders lose, but they cut their losses
short when they are in a loosing trade and when they are in a winning trade,
they let their profits go. They realize that day trading in the end usually
produces losses and the only way they are going to make big money is to let
their profits run and protect themselves with stops.
 
 
 
 
LAWS OF THE MARKET
There is no system in the market, which works all the time. The small
intraday minor trades are all part of the big larger moves. These represent
smaller cycles working in larger cycles or small wheels working in larger
wheels. The time and effort that must be expended on these small moves is
usually not worth it and wears out the trader. When he is worn out, he
usually misses the big moves. The time required to find moves of an hour or
two usually take the same amount of time to find bigger moves. These
small jiggles of the market should usually be avoided. You should then
avoid buying in the morning and selling before the close. Rather you should
buy sometime in the day knowing that the trend is upward and that will last
several days and approximately when and where it will end.
Time laws should be the primary focus of your trading rather than price
laws. As W. D. Gann said, time is the most important factor. It doesn’t
matter if the price is at the low when you buy, but only that it starts moving
up after you buy.
 
METHODS OF BUYING
To be a better trader it’s necessary that you understand the methods of
buying people use. The first method used is investors that buy stocks based
on earnings, dividends and the outlook of the finances of a company. This is
the method used by most brokerage firms to promote their research
department. This type of investing is called the fundamental approach. In
most cases this information is past history. By the time a research report
comes out telling clients that a firm does not look good in the way of sales,
earning and dividends, it’s already too late. The price of the company’s
stock has already taken a big drop. These research reports merely explain
what has already happened in the past and has no bearing on the future of
the company. Most of the time this group of buyers is completely lost. If a
stock drops when good news comes out, they can’t explain it. If a stock
rises with bad earning, they can’t explain it. This group of traders and
investors is living in the past and not in the future.
The second method of buying is buying the good news on a stock. These
people tend to watch CNBC all day on television. They have their eyes are
glued on the ticker. They even eat lunch watching the various CNBC
programs, hoping they won’t miss something important. They are
constantly overwhelmed with news and interviews from company officials.
Investment advisors are constantly telling them how and what to invest in.
It’s not possible for them to comprehend all the news they are getting.
These people frequently lose their perspective and capabilities of making
good decisions. When the stocks they buy start to decline, there is no one to
give them an opinion as to what to do. They are constantly in the state of
confusion.
The third method of buying is with charts. They follow the charts using the
available oscillators on their computer. They are constantly listing to the
leading news stories. They spend very little time understanding or
researching the technical methods of trading they use, but are in it for the
thrill it gives them.
 
The fourth type is the group that develops and back-tests technical trading
methods. When they are confident and have seen it work a sufficient
number of times they test it on the market. They then trade the market very
carefully and use protective stops.
 
 
KNOW YOUR STOCKS
You should try to trade in stocks that you know and that you have made
money with before. Avoid those stocks that you have lost money in before.
Don’t ever try to get even with a stock that you have lost money on. Usually
that stock will get more of your money. The problem is that your vibrations
are not in sync with that stock.
You should never buy a stock or commodity on a hunch or on the idea of
someone else who has no knowledge or who is not qualified to make
quality-buying suggestions.  You should only do buying when many factors
come together that you are watching. Until that happens take your time and
be careful. You must put together all of the factors that you think are
reasons to buy and weight them carefully and then make the purchase and
use stops and let nature take it course.
Always use sufficient market to trade with. Using thin margins will usually
disturb your free and clear thought. If you have made a slight error in your
calculations to buy, you might need to withstand the market going against
you until the trend turns in your direction.
 
 
 
 
KNOW THE TYPES OF CHARTS TO USE
There are now several types of charts to use. The bars in the following
examples are color-coded. This is a black & white book therefore you won’t
see the colors. You do have the ability to view a 30-trial of the Market-
Analyst software in the back of this book. With this software you can view
the colors on your computer color screen. Now here are the types of charts:
BAR CHART TIME SEPARATION
This is an excellent Gann style of bar chart. It uses normal open, high, low
close charts. The bars are color-coded. When the bar makes a higher high
the color turns blue, when the bar makes a lower low the color turns green.
 
 
 
BAR CHART – STENGTH
This is also another type of regular bar chart based on strength or
momentum. When the bar is strong its color is blue and when it’s weak the
color is red.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BAR CHART - SWING
This type of bar chart is green when it makes a higher high, neural when it
is an inside bar, black when it’s an outside bar and red when it makes a
lower low. Remember that both inside and outside bars many times indicate
a short-term change of trend in the market.
 
 
 
CANDLESTICK CHARTS
This is a special type of chart in which each bar can give you a different
signal from its formation. Candlestick Charts are a variation of the Bar
Chart used to visually search for various patterns in the market. A
Candlestick Chart is similar to a Bar Chart except that the open and close
are used to determine where the rectangles are being drawn. The position of
the close, relative to the open, determines whether the Candle is solid or a
wire frame. There are entire books written on the subject of trading these
types of charts.
 
 
 
 
 
GANN SWING BAR CHART
The Swing Chart takes the time element out of the bar chart and represents
only the movement of the price.
The figures on the Swing Chart provide valuable information. The figures
at each end of a swing are the date of the change in the swing, the number
of bars that make up the swing, and the price that the swing turned. The
number in the middle of the swing is the range of the swing. Swing Bars.
Sets how many bars must be in the same direction for the swing to turn. For
example, if set to three, there would have to be three successive higher bars
before a down swing would turn up.
* Outside Bar Method. Select how outside bars are handled.
* Label Font. This option allows you to set the size, style, and color of the
font that is used to display the swing figures on the chart.
* Use Inside Days. If this option is checked, then Inside Bars are used in
counting swings. Otherwise they are ignored.
* Display Prices. If this option is checked, then details regarding the swings
will be displayed on the Swing Chart.
* Show 50% Line. This option allows you to display two 50% horizontal
lines on the last two swings of the chart.
 
SWING CHART IMPOSED ON REGULAR
BAR CHART
Swing charts produce rising and falling lines to indicate price movement
with the time element removed. For a swing to turn up, the market must
have one higher bar. (A higher bar is one where the top of the bar is higher
than the previous bar, and the low is higher than the previous bar.) For a
swing to turn down, the market must have a lower bar (Lower top, and
lower bottom than the previous bar).
In the image above, the swing is initially moving up. The lower bar makes
the swing turn down. The next bar is a higher bar and the swing moves up
again and so on.
Multiple Bar Swing Charts
As a one bar swing chart can move up and down very rapidly it is
considered too noisy to make any judgment on trend. The most common
practice to filter out the noise of a swing chart is to specify a given number
of bars in any direction to change the swing. For example, in a 3 bar swing
chart, if a swing is moving down, it will require 3 higher bars before the
swing will turn up.
In this example, the swing is initially moving up. The occurrence of five
lower bars turns the swing down. The next two bars are higher bars, but as
they are only two higher bars, the swing stays down.
Outside Bars
The examples so far have been based on bars, which have higher and lower
tops and bottoms. An outside bar is one, which has a higher top and a lower
bottom than the previous bar. Market Analyst gives you the option as to
how you deal with outside bars.
The first method, use next bar, waits until the bar following the outside bar
is received, then the swing is processed. If the swing is moving down and
the bar after the outside bar is higher, then the swing would continue to the
bottom of the outside bar and then turn to the top of the following bar. If the
swing is moving down and the bar after the outside bar is a lower bar, then
the swing would turn to the top of the outside bar and then turn again to the
bottom of the following bar.
The second method is use outside Bar. In this method the swing is
calculated using the position of the open and close of the outside bar itself.
If a swing is moving down and the open is lower than the close, then the
swing would continue to the bottom of the outside bar and then turn to the
top of the outside bar. If the swing is moving down and the open is higher
than the close, then the swing would turn to the top of the outside bar and
then turn again to the bottom of the outside bar.
Inside Bars
Inside bars are bars that have their high price lower than the previous bar
and the low price higher than the previous bar. In Market Analyst there is an
option to include inside bars in swing chart creation. This only applies
where the swing requires multiple higher or lower bars to turn. In a three
bar swing chart a swing requires an inside bar and two higher or lower bars
to turn. Inside bars are generally ignored in calculating swings.
The images above, taken from the same position in a 3 bar swing chart,
show the swing when the "use inside days" option is turned on and off.
 
Exceptions
There are a few exceptions in calculating swings. If a market gaps and there
is a bar lower than the previous swing bottom, or higher than the previous
swing top, the swing will turn even if the required number of bars has not
been reached.
In this example, the 3 bar swing chart is moving up and would normally
require three bars to turn down. As the lower bar is lower than the previous
swing bottom, the swing turned without waiting for the second and third
bar.
In the following example we set up a chart with 3 minimum bars per swing.
We also included ellipses for direction and used outside bar signals to buy
the bottoms of ellipses.
GANN SWING CHART
The following chart illustrated a 1-point Gann Swing chart. That means the
market has to move through the prior day’s low or high by one point to
change the swing direction of the market. After the swing changes direction
its best to let the market makes its first reaction then either buy or sell into
the trend. These kinds of charts can be experimented with and the swing
numbers can be changed.
 
 
BARROS SWINGS
The Barros Swing is a trend indicator and can be used much like Gann
Swings. Ray Barros developed this method for successful trading.   The
Swing method uses three different time frames, short, intermediate and long
term for trading signals. The best technique for successful trades is the
make sure both the long term and intermediate swings are in your direction
and take a short-term swing in the direction of the other two.
In the example below all three swings, long-term, intermediate-term and
short-term went long December 22 when they all turned up. The market
then took off and broke into new highs.
 
LINE CHARTS
Line Charts are a simple way to remove the "clutter" and simply see a line
joining the close of each bar. Many Elliott wave traders use line charts so
they can more easily see the waves. They are especially fond of 30 minute
bar charts, which show the most minute Elliott Wave patterns.
 
 
 
RANGE CHARTS
Range Charts provide an alternative view of the market by adjusting the
width of each bar to a proportion of the range of the bar.
 
Range charts used with preset Gann angles works nicely. Time is adjusted
to price with the range of the day calculated into bar width.
 
POINT AND FIGURE CHARTS
Point and Figure Charts are another alternative chart for viewing the price
movement of the market. Point and Figure charts use crosses to represent
rising markets, and circles to represent falling markets. The Point & Figure
Chart is similar to a Swing Chart in that it does not give an indication to
time, simply the movement of price. Market Analyst adopts the standard of
displaying a cross over a circle when there is only one box in either
direction. The image below shows how this is represented.
 
* Box Size. This option specifies the size of the each of the circles and
crosses in points.
* Reverse Count. This option specifies how many boxes (circles or crosses)
must be formed in the opposite direction to the market before being
displayed. For example, if this is set to three and the box size is set to 10,
there will have to be a 30 point move in the market before the Point &
Figure Chart changes.
* Label Font. This option allows you to set the size, style, and color of the
font that is used to display information on the chart.
* Display Prices. If this option is selected, then details regarding the chart
will be displayed on the chart.
 
 
KAGI SWING CHART
Kagi charts were created around 1870’s in Japan. Kagi charts, as with Gann
Swing charts, display rising and falling vertical lines to indicate price action
while ignoring the time element. The lines created by Kagi charts are
usually displayed as thick or thin depending on price action, direction and
the point at which prices penetrate a previous high or low. Market Analyst,
however, distinguishes between the thick and thin lines using color. Green
represents thick lines and red represents thin lines as the default colors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
CALENDAR DAYS VS TRADING DAYS
The first chart has all calendar days showing verses the second chart that
shows only trading days. For time calculations it is recommended that
calendar days be showing. Time continues even though the market is
closed. Use both types of charts and determine which works best with the
market you are using.
GANN FAN ON CALENDAR BASED
CHARTS
The Gann Fan is a traditional method of squaring time and price. A one-by-
one line (1x1) refers to a line where every movement in time of one bar
means the line will go up by one point in price value.
It’s extremely important that Gann Fan lines be drawn correctly. Originally
Gann set the angles up on K&E chart paper. The angles are really
percentage divisions. If you are using a computer program to draw the
angles then they should be stored as percentages. Therefore a traditional 45°
line, or a one-by-one, is considered to be a value of 100%. A two-by-one,
where for every one unit in time the price will increase by two, is
represented by a 200% value; a three-by-one, represented by 300%, etc. A
one-by-two line, where for every two periods in time the value in price only
increases by one value, is depicted by 50%. A one-by-four line would be
depicted as 25%.
If the Gann Fan is used on a trading day chart and a calendar day chart it’s
going to tell you two different things. The angles won’t hit the same place.
The following is the same Gann Fan drawn on a bar chart without holidays
and weekends as above.
 
 
GANN FAN ON TRADING DAY BASED
CHARTS
A good program will allow you to draw the Gann Fan lines based on either
calendar days or market days. It should also have an option that tells you
what one unit of price is. If the chart were measured in quarters, then this
value would be .25. You should also have an option of altering the
percentage ratios.
 
GANN FAN ON CALENDAR BASED
CHARTS WITH REACTIONS
How to you determine which type of chart to use with the Gann Fan lines?
The best way is called best fit. Use the way that fits the chart the best. See
now the calendar based chart with more angles on it.
 
 
 
GANN FAN ON TRADING DAY BASED
CHARTS WITH REACTIONS
Now look at the next trading bar based chart. The new angles drawn on it fit
much better.
With this kind of chart you can have a trading strategy with. Use the main
angles down for the main trend. Short the market when a 1 x 1 angle is
broken. The first profit objective can be the bottom of the reaction angles.
 
 
 
 
USING THE GANN FAN WITH
ASTROLOGY
In this example we show how you can use a reverse Gann Fan angle off of
three prior lows. Projecting to a planetary aspect day of the Sun-Earth 180?
Opposition. The two angles clearly gave the high and low of that day.
 
 
 
 
 
ZERO POINT – WEEKLY CHARTS ON DEC
OATS
The following illustrates taking the Gann angle off of the zero point on
December Oats. Notice how nicely the angles fit the price and how the
market crosses the angle lines just to go to the next angle.
 
 
 
 
SQUARING RANGE – MONTHLY CHART
ON DEC COCOA
The following chart illustrates squaring the range on the monthly chart on
December Cocoa. You must find the key angle that the market is working
on. Sometimes it might be the 1 x 1, the 1 x 2 might be the relevant angle or
even the 1 x 4 might be the key angle. A lot has to do with the scaling of the
charts. In this example it’s the blue angle, which intersects with the top
horizontal line. When this happens the market squares itself and the market
reverses its trend.
 
 
 
 
GANN FAN GEOMETRIC ANGLES
The Advanced Gann Fan (AGF) creates fans (lines) using defined angles
based on two selected points on a chart. The lines produced provide
excellent support and resistance and time lines that can be extended well
into the future. The Standard Gann Fan is calculated by squaring time and
price. A 1x1 line has the same time division as the price division. If a
security price rises by 10 units, the time division will also increase by 10
units. The AGF is purely a geometric fan where geometric angles are drawn
from the starting point, the ending point, and the midpoint of a line that the
user draws. See in the following example how the lines created gave trend
line support and resistance. The intersecting points gave highs or lows on
the chart. This is a weekly chart of the stock Excite.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GANN SQUARES
Gann often talked about the importance of squaring time and price. The GS
is a simple way of achieving this.  These squares are often referred to as the
square of 90, or square of 144. The time period can be calculated using bars
or calendar days. The square can be divided using 1/8, 1/16, 1/4, or 1/3
lines. In this case we used 1/3 lines. Notice how these division lines of
horizontal support and resistance work. Also notice has the angles work in
this square. The GS is filled with a host of angles joining the various
corners and midpoints of the box. Gann placed great importance on these
angles. In the below example we kept the square proportionate that is height
equal to width. The market bottomed early or squared itself. It then rallied
to the end of the square. Many times a market will bottom early and it will
have a Fibonacci relationship to the end of the square.
 
 
 
GANN SQUARES EXTENDED
Gann Square can be duplicated as many times as required in both time and
price and extended into the future. The square if filled with a host of angles
joining the various corners and midpoints of the box. In this example we
have a Gann square of 30 extended into the future.
 
THE BIBLICAL CIRCLE
According the George Bayer time is taken from the Biblical circle which is
not divided by 360 degrees buy rather a little over 368 degrees. 368 divided
by 3 gives us 122. Under his theory the unit of time 35 times 2.5 is then
equal to 122. That means that both price and time (calendar days) move
with the number of 35 in some way.
 
35*.25 = 8.75
35*.375= 13.125
35*.5 = 17.5
35*.625 = 21.875
35*.75 = 26.25
35*.875 = 30.625
35*1 = 35
35*2= 70
35*2.5=122
 
The distance between tops and bottoms in stocks and futures come out to
the above numbers in many cases. See the following chart of how the stock
of Dupont works inside of 72.5 and 37.5. The distance between is exactly
35. Many times the price movement starts at the first reaction as the chart
below clearly shows.
 
 
 
35-DAY CALENDAR TIME CYCLE –
DUPONT             
Cycles of time also work with the same numbers. See the same chart of
Dupont using the special function of a 35-day calendar time cycle.
 
 
 
SAME TIME COUNTS
It is possible to have several time counts at the same time starting from
different beginning levels. See the following chart, Calendar Time Cycle of
35 – 2 Cycles.
 
 
 
50-WEEKLY CYCLE
The following illustrated 50-weekky cycle is very dominant as you can see.
See how closely the chart fits this weekly cycle. You should initially check
this cycle before you do anything. It’s usually accurate to 1 week on each
side of the cycle point.
 
 
37.5 WEEKLY CYCLE
The 37.5 weekly cycle is 2nd most important. Always check this cycle for
timing. Remember that more than one cycle can be working at any one
time.
 
 
 
25 WEEKLY CYCLE
Now look at the 25 weekly cycle. See how this works with the market. As
you can see in this example it works to within the normal bar on each side
of the timing point.
 
17 WEEKLY CYCLE
The 17 weekly cycle is also important. In this example its accuracy is very
respectable. On most points it was within the bar on each side of the timing
point accuracy.
 
12.5 WEEKLY CYCLE
The 12.5 weekly cycle works in this chart example. Most of the timing
point hits were very respectable.
 
 
8.5 WEEKLY CYCLE
The 8.5 weekly cycle in this example was fairly close, but not as accurate as
some of the previous weekly timing examples.
 
6.25 WEEKLY CYCLE
The next chart illustrates the 6.25 weekly cycle. It is one of the more
accurate cycles and as you can see it worked nicely on the following chart.
 
 
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 21.87
DAYS
In the following example we have converted the 6.25 weekly cycle into the
daily cycle. 6.25 x 7 = 43.75 calendar days /2 = 21.87 days
 
 
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 14.58
DAYS
In this example we have converted the weekly cycle down even further into
14.58 days. 6.25 x 7 = 43.75 calendar days /3 = 14.58 days
 
 
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 10.93
DAYS
In this example we have converted the weekly cycle even further into 10.93
days. 6.25 x 7 = 43.75 calendar days /4 = 10.93 days
 
 
 
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 7.29
DAYS
In the following example we have converted the weekly cycle even further
into 7.29 days. 6.25 x 7 = 43.75 calendar days /6 = 7.29 days
 
 
CONVERT WEEKLY CYCLE INTO 3.65
DAYS
In the following example converting the weekly cycle even further into 3.65
days. 6.25 x 7 = 43.75 calendar days /12 = 3.65 days
 
ASPECTS
Planetary aspects are very important to watch for changes in trends around
the key cycle times of:
 
50 weeks
25 weeks
17 weeks
12.5 weeks
8.5 weeks
6.25 weeks
21.87 days
14.58 days
11.93 days
7.29 days
3.65 days
 
Aspects occur between two different plants and with the Sun in the
following aspects:
Conjunction 0?
Opposition 180?
Sextile 60?
Square 90?
Trine 120?
Semisextile 30?
Semisquare 145?
Sesquiquandrate 135?
Biquintile 144?
Quincunx 150?
 
The Opposition, Sextile, Square and Trine are the most important of the
above. The Conjunction, Semisextile, Semisquare, Sesquiquandrate,
Biquintile and Quincunx are less important.
 
 
 
 
ASPECTS TIED TO CYCLES
The following aspects should be looked at closely especially when they tie
into the cycles given above:
 
Sun Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Mars
Sun Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Jupiter
Sun Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Saturn
Sun Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Uranus
Sun Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Neptune
Sun Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Pluto
 
Venus Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Mars
Venus Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Jupiter
Venus Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Saturn
Venus Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Uranus
Venus Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Neptune
Venus Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Pluto
 
Mars Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Jupiter
Mars Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Saturn
Mars Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Uranus
Mars Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Neptune
Mars Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Pluto
 
Jupiter Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Saturn
Jupiter Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Uranus
Jupiter Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Neptune
Jupiter Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Pluto
 
Saturn Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Uranus
Saturn Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Neptune
Saturn Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Pluto
 
Uranus Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Neptune
Uranus Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Pluto
 
Neptune Opposition, Sextile, Square, Trine Pluto
 
The following charts give you some examples of how planetary aspects
affect certain markets. Look at them closely.
 
 
 
 
SUN SEXTILE MARS
Notice in this example of December Corn how the Sun Sextile Mars
showed intermediate tops and bottoms to the week.
 
 
SUN SEXTILE JUPITER
In this example Sun Sextile Jupiter gave a many minor tops and bottoms
with December Corn.
 
 
SUN SEXTILE SATURN
In this example Sun Sextile Saturn gave a large number of minor tops with
December Corn.
 
 
 
SUN SEXTILE URANUS
In this example with December Gold Sun Sextile Uranus gave many
intermediate tops and bottoms.
 
 
 
SUN SEXTILE NEPTUNE
In this example of the Australian Dollar see how the Sun Sextile Neptune
called many intermediate tops to the week.
 
 
SUN SEXTILE PLUTO
In the following example of December British Petroleum Sun Sextile Pluto
gave many intermediately highs on the weekly chart.
 
 
 
VENUS SEXTILE MARS
In this example of December Copper the Venus Sextile Mars there were
several minor highs given throughout the trend by this signal.
 
 
VENUS SEXTILE JUPITER
This example of Venus Sextile Jupiter gave a large number of minor highs
in this chart of May Corn.
 
 
VENUS SEXTILE SATURN
In this example of December Japanese Yen the Venus Sextile Saturn gave a
lot of minors highs in its topping formation.
 
 
VENUS SEXTILE URANUS
In this example of December Coffee the Venus Sextile Uranus signal gave a
large number of minor highs in the downtrend.
 
 
 
VENUS SEXTILE NEPTUNE
In this example of December Cotton the Venus Sextile Neptune gave a large
number of intermediate highs in the uptrend within 1 – 2 bars.
 
 
 
VENUS SEXTILE JUPITER
In this example of May Oats the Venus Sextile Jupiter signal gave minor
highs and lows.
 
 
ASTROLOGICAL TIMING
In George Bayer’s course he felt that you could determine when there was a
change in a stock or commodity by the value sign each planet occupies at
they move. He said that when the planets cross three values there would be
a probable change of trend. The values are:
 
13 DEGREES 38’12” Taurus
16 DEGREES 21’48” Virgo
15 DEGREEES Capricorn.
 
The sign symbols are listed in the figure below. Notice the Glyphs on the
left side for each of the signs on the right side. Try to remember what these
Glyphs look like.
 
SIGN SYMBOLS
 
 
VISUAL EPHEMERIS
We are using a visual Ephemeris, which gives basically planetary places. It
contains the position of all planets on a daily basis. We are only interested
in the planet’s motion in longitude. Declination or latitude is not considered.
When the planets pass through the three special values give above there is
usually a change of trend in the market place.
In the following three instances we look at a Dupont chart taken randomly
from the stocks we are looking at. Dupont made a top on 3/14/1997 when
Jupiter crosses through 15? Capricorn. See the following figure.
In the next chart you see Dupont turns up on 5/3/1997 after Venus crosses
through 13 Degrees 38’12” Taurus. See the following chart.
 
Next you see a major top on 6/6/1997 when Jupiter crossed through 15?
Capricorn. Also notice on the visual Ephemeris that Mars and Saturn are
also getting ready to cross through 16 Degrees 21’48” Virgo within just a
few days. That’s three signals occurring nearly at once making this a major
top. See the following chart.
These signals don’t tell us the direction of the next move. One should use
other methods to determine the direction. All we know is that a change in
trend is due on a certain day. Certain planets have different effects on stocks
and commodities. From trial and error it is easy to see which planets are
affecting each individual stock or commodity. The moon also has an effect.
It travels much faster, so it will therefore give many more signals. Most of
these are short term in nature.
 
 
 
ASTROLOGICAL CRITICAL DEGREES
Each stock or commodity reacts at particular degrees and minute of the
Zodiac to one or two planets in one or two positions. In the following
example of December Corn, you will find that it reacts almost exactly and
changes trend when Mars crosses 2? 0’ of a sign. Every major turn of the
commodity hit that particular degree in this chart and turned trend to the
very day!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GANN PLANETARY LINES
The Gann Planetary Lines are based upon the position of the planets in
relation to the earth, sun or sidereal. Gann did a great deal of analysis where
he used the longitude of planets as price support and resistance. Some early
Gann charts show how Gann drew by hand the angles of the planets on his
charts. Gann's theory was that certain planets affected certain markets. The
translation of planet longitude to price is achieved by, for example,
establishing that 270 degrees will be drawn on a chart at 27 cents or $2.70
or $27 or $270, whichever is in the range of the data. To allow for prices
outside the 0 to 360 degree range, the price has 360 degrees added to it, for
example after 27 cents the next price would be 63 cents. Harmonics should
also be displayed with these lines. For instance, the angle on a particular
day may be 270 degrees (as described above), but if four harmonics are
displayed, price lines are seen at 27 cents, 36 cents, 45 cents, 54 cents, and
then the repeated baseline and 63 cents and so on. Baselines should be bold
while harmonics are lighter so that it is easy to distinguish between the two
types of lines. See the following chart of Caterpillar Tractor with planetary
lines drawn divided into 4 divisions between main lines. Lines can be
drawn in any division between main lines.
 
 
 
 
 
SQUARE OF NINE
Gann used the SQ9 table to determine price targets. The lines created using
the SQ9 often reveal support and resistance in the market. When a price is
selected on the SQ9 chart, prices at 360 degrees and other selected angles in
between are identified and displayed at calculated price levels. Using the
SQ9 to display a line at 45 degrees, the price is calculated 45 degrees from
the starting price. In the following example the Square of Nine was drawn
on bottoms in the uptrend. The market encountered resistance between the
225 and 270 levels.
 
 
 
STATIC SQUARE OF NINE
The Static Square of Nine (SQ9-S) is used in determining price targets. The
lines created using the SQ9-S can reveal support and resistance in the
market. This tool differs from the standard Square of Nine in that a starting
price does not need to be selected. The starting price (factor) defaults to a
value of 1. From this point the selected angles, e.g. 90 degrees, 180 degrees,
270 degrees, 360 degrees, are drawn on a chart as a series of horizontal
lines. These lines are drawn indefinitely on the price scale as per the
selected angles. Because some commodities trade at values below 1, or
trade in values of many thousands (e.g. Dow), a multiplying factor can be
applied to the SQ9-S to produce values, which are relevant to the analyzed
security. See how support and resistance hit’s on the weekly Caterpillar
Tractor stock.
 
 
 
 
PYRAPOINT
Pyrapoint is an excellent Square of Nine and channeling technique
discovered by Don E. Hall. Here is a story reproduced by permission of
Traders World Magazine. Don Hall is the author.
Probably no one in the trading world has received more discussion than
W.D. Gann. Discussions of the famous trader have ranged from awe and
admiration to downright disbelief.  Some of us found this to be one of the
foundation bricks of reason for studying his sometimes- complex trading
life.
Having been in the markets in both cash and futures since the mid 1950’s, it
became evident to me that not all of the information, which I found to be
touted even in those early days was 100%.  This is no surprise to most of
you as readers of a technical source such as Traders World magazine.  More
than a surprise, I found it to be a challenge.
The percentage of correct trades attributable to Mr. Gann just did not fit the
pattern, which was my lot in my own hedging and trading.  Thus I set my
goal to first find out as much as I could as to the validity of the claims.  My
acquaintance and friendship with Mr. “Reno” Alghini, a friend and close
trading associate of Mr. Gann, started me in earnest to the next goal.  It also
gave me the road map of my next challenge.
“Reno” often commented that when Gann went to the pit, he always carried
the Pythagorean Cube (Square of Nine as we know it), and many times,
nothing else for support.  This fact made me realize that I had my work
assignment.
Gann’s record in public and under scrutiny made one conclusion evident to
me: it just had to be simpler than that to which I had been exposed in books,
seminars, and courses – just had to be!
From this point in my studies, roughly halfway through the 45 years which
I have determined this market interest, I began Gann studies in nearly 100%
of my efforts.  The reason: no one to whom I had knowledge had done so
well in trading, nor nearly so consistently.  If one needs a guide to hang his
or her goals upon, in my opinion, it is CONSISTENCY.  Even with his high
percentage of accuracy, we are shown that Gann still maintained a very
good ratio of dollars earned per trade – and he apparently did so with a
minimum of risk.  This meant one thing to me: he had to know what he was
trading, when to trade it, when to be dormant to a trade, and at what point to
be in and/or get out.  It seems to me that these are worthy goals with which
to trade by any standards.
Thus our quest for more and more information on the Pythagorean Cube
seemed to be justified.  After all, if it were the tool that it seemed to be
when Gann was under fire by the press as well as in the pit, why then
should it not be worthy of our 100% effort?  It was and is.  Thus the birth of
PYRAPOINT: A Trade Analogy.
Just what is this system called PYRAPOINT: A Trade Analogy?   In the
simplest of terms, it is the unraveling of the Pythagorean Cube.
As we have stated in an earlier article, we likely aren’t the first to see the
almost mystic market waves and, indeed, the full moves as they relate to the
Pythagorean Cube.  PYRAPOINT: A Trade Analogy, simply gives us a plan
to use these wonderful moves, and a place to get (or stay) out of a loss or
losses.
The important word in the prior paragraph is “SIMPLY.”  No system or plan
is of much use to us, in our opinion, if it involves so much effort and
research per trade that we cannot ACT on the recommendation.  The market
moves much too quickly for very involved criteria.   It is our belief that
Gann did not have that much time either, as determined by the number
trades credited to his per-hour of trading.
We are convinced that one needs a system that provides early and
continuing indications of market action.  We believe that one needs a road
map approach.  We are also convinced that this recognizable direction must
be familiar enough to us for our action without hesitation.  Confidence –
right?
             
Herein lies the true basis for discipline, that all-important factor for
successful trading.  We need to see the opportunity, read it for target and for
time – then act.  Call it confidence – call it discipline – it is the answer to
successful trades – simply and quickly.  We don’t even necessarily require a
computer if we have the chart of question and recognize the “stop and go
lights.”
The plot thickens as to reasons for unraveling the Pythagorean Cube.
We are happy to report that our serious students have found our teachings in
PYRAPOINT: A Trade Analogy, to yield to them a better trading life. 
Some have graciously given us a “best” rating.   The single-most heard
praise is that it simply makes sense – that it yields a reason for our position
of entry and exit – that it gives a track to follow for full fruition of a trade –
and that (if we follow the six simple rules) we simply do have a better
bottom line.  We believe that this is what it is all about!
This doesn’t mean that our grade card does not indicate that we haven’t
experienced the “normal 3%” who aren’t claiming to be in this group.  We
not only understand this, we anticipate some reluctance to read or study 300
pages (especially with so much information “out there” today).   Our
comment however is to recall that nearly half of the pages are pictures
(charts).  We expect to confirm all of our text.  Because we have elected to
give you book owners the time advantage while waiting for the professional
publishing house, we have been asked to send to you the full-color
prototype of the book from our office until the publisher can get “on line.” 
We have done this.  In this process, we ink-jet print each page individually,
place them in our covers and have them professionally bound with binders
which allow you to lay the book open to study, compare charts, or make
notes at your discretion.  This is a workbook of knowledge for your better
trading.  It is to show you what is actually going on in this world of trading
via the Pythagorean Cube.   It is not to place on the mantel as décor. 
Actually our students relate that it is revealing to other fields as well – but
certainly the markets.
Although we have honestly had no direct negative critique, we understand
that we have been discussed in a chat room environment wherein a person
felt that we had been a bit careless since he had found a page upside down. 
Some of the charts are at 90 degrees to the pages of text to show a point, but
I personally must take that debit, and I do apologize – it gets a bit late at the
office on some editions for us old fellers!   I also apologize that the
prototype requires flipping a page of text to fit a chart occasionally.  I have
faith in all of you to overcome – so long as you are getting the information
to assist your life – AND THIS WILL!  One last critique was that it seemed
a lot of information to learn the “Square of Nine.”  I hear you.  I tried it for
20 years.  Friend, if you have learned the art and calculations of the mystic
diagonals, where to place your entries and exits, where to expect changes
(which direction and how much), how to regulate your squares for
calculation, and then have developed good rules to control your marketing
and your discipline – then I agree with you.  I just haven’t met a person who
could show me these things.  I am certain that this or these person(s) exist –
otherwise I would undoubtedly not have found it to share.  One last item for
this topic: we have offered to answer your questions relative to our
interpretations to assist you for a period of six months.  So talk to us in the
chat room per Traders World magazine as invited.  We care, and we want to
answer your concerns should they not be on the web FAQ. 
As stated in the book, PYRAPOINT: A Trade Analogy, we have other
reasons why we feel that it is truly “the answer” for most of us.   The
Pythagorean Cube and Theories are of much earlier origins than
Pythagoras’ discoveries brought back to Greece from his trek to Egypt.  In
fact, they are evident in the Great Pyramid and other architecture dating
back to 2500 B.C.  And as stated the book, it does make one wonder what
really took place in that 2000 plus years era, since Pythagoras brought it to
the Greeks in the first millennium A.D.  It is from here that we began our
education in the “modern sense” by the teachings of Pythagoras, sometimes
referred to as the “father of modern mathematics” – especially
trigonometry, algebraic equations of floating decimals, etc.
At this point let us emphasize that Gann was a particularly good
mathematician.  This was another clue to our further quest for answers as to
how he was so accomplished.  His research was quite extensive, even to
countries besides Egypt, but he had this all behind him when under fire in
the pit, and apparently relied heavily on the notorious Pythagorean Cube.  It
had to be basic – and it is.  It had to be simple – and it is.  It had to be
accurate for both price and time – and it is.  Above all, it had to be far more
accessible and more rapidly understood than most of the complicated
endeavors to which he is credited.  Think about it!  How much of what you
see attributed to his success in the trading pit could he have done without
multiple tools of assistance?
Personally, I have no problem with any of the interpretations of the many
varieties of methodologies concerning W.D. Gann.  My hat is off to many
scholars as they have unwound fact after fact from his work.  My point in
this discussion is that there are dozens of productions of theories on his
methodology, ranging from math to astrology, with many combinations –
and with merit for the most part.
The problem that I do have in my years of study is two-fold: (1) to
assimilate a profitable trading plan from all of my books and papers which I
have collected for two or three decades, as they relate to Gann’s works and
teachings, and (2) to sort all of the mass of information into a simple and
usable plan for trading.
Again, I believe that Gann did his analogy for a trade quickly and
accurately with tools, which were available to him at the moment of truth –
the moment to ACT on a given trade.
Again, it just had to be simpler than most Gann presentations of the day.
In our opinion, the answer is Universality, ease of understanding and of
interpretation, speed of determination and action, accuracy in all of these
factors – the answer is SIMPLICITY.  The answer is the unraveling of the
Pythagorean Cube in a manner that will allow us PEACE OF MIND AND
PROFIT, while not overfeeding our margin account.  Mr. Gann was right:
the answer is to KNOW your trade.  In our opinion, this means to KNOW
IT ON THE PYTHAGOREAN CUBE.  Believe us – like the carpenter’s
square, there is a world of education on this 4500-year-old Pythagorean
Cube.  We must learn to use it to prosper!  As the readers of PYRAPOINT:
A Trade Analogy have stated, “we must stay on the diagonal highways that
the Pythagorean Cube undeniably provides – calculate the squares (the
posts) and the fence is there for us” – SIMPLY!
Below see the chart using the Pyrapoint system of trading. Notice how it
draws the correct Square of Nine objectives automatically. It also draws the
parallel channels.
 
CONCENTRIC CIRCLES - TIME
Concentric Circles (CC) are used to draw circles that are probable values of
support and resistance in both time and price. The circles are a percentage
of a user-defined circle. You have complete control over what percentage
values are used in the CC tool and the colors of each of the CC Lines.
Common CC values are 50%, 200% and 300%. These values are used as
the default values in Market Analyst. CC's are calculated by specifying a
starting point in the market, and then moving the cursor to the right until the
base circle is the desired size. The other circles are then calculated as a
percentage of the original circle. The CC is also enhanced by the ability to
specify calendar days, or solar degrees. If calendar days are to be used,
Market Analyst calculates the circle based on the number of calendar days
between the start and end points resulting in elliptical representation. The
following example is taken from the high to the first big low. The
expanding circles give you the next two major highs.
 
 
CONCENTRIC CIRCLES – PRICE
In this example we use the same chart but set the concentric chart at the low
in price rather than time. We then project the concentric circle to expand
and give us resistance price levels. Concentric circles are set a ratio to the
first. In this case we set it at 50, 200, 300, 450, 700.
 
 
 
FIBONACCI ARCS
Fibonacci Arcs (FA) are used to draw circular arcs that are probable values
of support and resistance based on a market range. Common values are the
Fibonacci sequence 38.2%, 50% & 61.8%. If the range went from a low to
a high, then the line between the two points is divided up into the
percentage ratios. An arc, with its center at the second point, is then drawn
through each of the ratios on the line. In this example the entrancement
goes all the way to the 50% arc.
 
 
 
 
FIBONACCI FAN
Fibonacci Fans (FF) are used to draw a fan of angled lines that are probable
values of support and resistance based on a market range. Common values
are the Fibonacci sequence 38.2%, 50% & 61.8%. FF's are calculated by
selecting a range in the market. If the range went from a low to a high, then
an imaginary line is drawn from the second point vertically down to the
price level of the start point. This line is then divided up into the percentage
ratios. A fan line is then drawn from the start point through each of the
ratios on the imaginary vertical line.
 
 
 
PRICE EXTENSIONS
Price Extensions (PE) are used to specify horizontal lines at price levels
which are determined to be probable values of support and resistance based
on the markets previous range, and a third extension point. Common values
are the Fibonacci sequence 38.2%, 50% & 61.8%. These are used as the
default values in Market Analyst. PE's are a percentage of a specified range
calculated from a third point. For example, if a market bottom of 2400 was
selected as the starting point, and the tool was extended up to a value of
2500 as the market top, then the extension point was selected at the next
market bottom of 2450, a PE value of 25% would be 2475. (2450 + 25).
 
 
 
PRICE RETRACEMENTS
Price Retracements (PR) are used to specify horizontal lines at price levels
which are determined to be probable values of support and resistance based
on the market’s previous range. Common values are the Fibonacci sequence
38.2%, 50% & 61.8%. PR's are a percentage of a specified range calculated
back from the end point. For example, if a market bottom of 2400 was
selected as the starting point, and the tool was extended up to a value of
2500 as the market top, then a PR value of 25% would be 2475.
 
 
TIME EXTENSIONS
Time Extensions (TE) are used to specify vertical lines at date/time levels
which are determined to be probable values of changes in trend based on
the market’s previous date/time range and a third extension point. Common
values are the Fibonacci sequence 138.2%, 150% and 161.8%. TE's are a
percentage of a specified date/time range calculated from a third point. For
example, if a market bottom at a given date was selected as the starting
point, and the tool was extended to a date 100 bars later, then the extension
point was selected at the next market change 50 bars further, a TE value of
25% would be 175 bars from the starting date/time.
 
 
 
 
TIME RETRACEMENTS
Time Retracements (TR) are used to specify vertical lines at date/time
levels which are retracements. Common values are the Fibonacci sequence
138.2%, 150% and 161.8%. TE's are a percentage of a specified date/time
range calculated from a third point.
 
 
 
 
ANDREW’S PITCHFORK
Andrew's Pitchfork (AP) is used to form support and resistance lines, which
are used to draw channels on a bar chart. AP's are calculated by selecting a
starting point and a range (two further points). The central line is drawn
from the starting point (A) through the midpoint of the range (B to C). Extra
lines are then drawn with the same gradient as the central line from points B
& C.
 
 
 
ADX INDICATOR
To calculate the directional movement in a trend (up or down) a range is
determined by comparing today’s high and low with yesterdays close. If the
largest part of today’s range is above yesterday’s range, the directional
movement is plus. If the largest part of today’s range is below yesterday’s
range, the directional movement is minus. If today’s range is within
yesterday’s range, then directional movement is zero. The ADX is
calculated as the average of the directional indicators (DIs). To calculate the
directional movement in a trend (up or down) a range is determined by
comparing today’s high and low with yesterdays close. If the largest part of
today’s range is above yesterday’s range, the directional movement is plus.
If the largest part of today’s range is below yesterday’s range, the
directional movement is minus. If today’s range is within yesterday’s range,
then directional movement is zero. The ADX is calculated as the average of
the directional indicators (DIs). When the red crosses above the green and
blue buy and take profits on the top of the run up.
BOLLINGER BANDS
Bollinger Bands are based on a standard moving average. The actual band
lines are offset by a positive and negative standard deviation value from the
central moving average value, to provide upper and lower bands. For each
of the bars, the moving average is first calculated. The offset is then
calculated as the standard deviation over the same average calculation. This
offset is then applied to get the position of the upper and lower lines for
each bar. The bands are then the joining of the upper and lower values for
each bar.
 
 
 
 
COMMODITY CHANNEL INDEX
Commodity Channel Index (CCI) is used to give a measurement of how far
a security is from it's statistical mean. High values mean that the current
price is higher than the mean. The calculation is done in the following steps.
For each bar - average the High, Low, and Close.
Calculate a moving average of these values.
For each bar in the calculation, subtract the final bars average (step 2) value
from the OHC average calculated in step 1.
Calculate a moving average of the values in step 3.
Multiply the value by 0.015.
Subtract the value given from Step 2 from the value in step 1.
Divide the value in Step 6 by the value in Step 5.
KELTNER CHANNELS
Channels are based on a standard moving average. The actual band lines are
offset by a positive and negative standard deviation value from the central
moving average value, to provide upper and lower bands. For each of the
bars, the moving average is first calculated. The average range is then
calculated over the same number of bars. The band's values are then
calculated as the central average + or - the range average multiplied by a
constant.
 
 
 
 
 
MACD INDICATOR
A MACD (Moving Average Convergence Divergence) is the difference
between an Oscillator and a Moving Average of that Oscillator. MACD’s
are always calculated using exponential Moving Averages based on the
close of the bars.
 
 
 
 
 
MOVING AVERAGE BANDS
Moving Average Bands are based on a standard on a standard moving
average. The actual band lines are offset by a positive and negative value
from the central moving average value, to provide upper and lower bands.
For each of the bars, the moving average is first calculated. The offset is
then applied to get the position of the upper and lower lines for each bar.
The bands are then the joining of the upper and lower values for each bar.
The offset is a percentage of the moving average value.
 
 
 
 
MOVING AVERAGES and CYCLES
Moving averages can be used to give trend direction and even cycles.
Displayed here is a 12-day moving average moved to the right 4 days. If the
price action makes a high and the moving average shows a turn, then it is
considered a short term cycle high. If the price action makes a low and the
moving average shows a turn then it is considered a short term cycle low.
As for trend changes, if the prices get above a rising moving averages the
trend is up and conversely if the prices drop below a falling moving average
the price trend is down. See the below chart.
 
 
 
 
MOVING AVERAGE MOMENTUM
Moving average momentum can be used to give you a clearer change of
trend indication. Looking at the chart below, we have set the Moving
Average Momentum at 12. When the oscillator gets at the top and crosses a
trend line, it is a short-term sell. Conversely when the Moving Average
Momentum gets to the bottom and it crosses a trend line it is a buy.
 
 
 
 
 
PARABOLIC STOP AND REVERSE
The Parabolic Stop and Reverse (P-SAR) indicator derives it name from the
fact that when applied it resembles a parabola. The P-SAR has basically
been designed to set price stops.
The P-SAR is calculated as follows:
SARTomorrow = SARToday + AF(EPTrade – SARToday)
Where:
SAR = Stop and Reverse
AF = Acceleration Factor
EP = Extreme Price
The SAR stop level value is drawn on the day in which it is in effect.
Below is an illustration of the Parabolic Stop and Reverse System. It can be
used effectively with occasional short-term losses and whipsaws. Many
traders use it more in conjunction with other method of trading.
 
 
 
5/25 PRICE OSCILLATOR
This is the famous 5/25 Price Oscillator that Tom Joseph uses on his
expensive Elliott Wave Program. If you learn to recognize the pattern of
this price oscillator you can easily determine were you are in the classical
Elliott Wave pattern of waves.
 
 
 
RATE OF CHANGE
Rate of Change (ROC) is used to give a measurement of the momentum of
a security. High values indicate that the security is increasing in price
rapidly, low values indicate the price is falling rapidly. The ROC is
calculated by subtracting the closing price n bars ago from today's price.
The value is then displayed as a percentage.
((Today's Close - Close n bars ago)/Close n bars ago) x 100
This oscillator works excellent with divergence. When the bottom Rate of
Change Oscillator shows loss of momentum and the top prices are still
advancing you can usually make a trade with the 2 to 3 bump on the
oscillator.
 
 
RELATIVE STRENGTH INDEX
Relative Strength Index (RSI) is an oscillator that follows price movement.
All the values where the close is above the previous close are added
together, and all those below are added, giving a total UP value and a total
DOWN value. The RSI is then calculated as:
RSI = 100 - (100/(1 + (Up / Down))
The Relative Strength Index is somewhat like the Rate of Change
Oscillator. It many times gives you divergence at the tops and bottoms of
trends. It is best not to rely on this oscillator alone, but to use other signals
as confirmation.
 
 
 
STOCHASTICS
Stochastics is an oscillator that is displayed as two lines. The first line, %K,
is the main stochastic calculation. The second, %D, is a moving average of
%K. A Slow Stochastic simply uses the %D line as the %K line and
calculates a new moving average of the %K(old %D) as the new %D line.
First the %K value is calculated.
%D is calculated as a moving average of %K.
To use the system effectively try to buy when the market is in an uptrend
and the oscillator is near 20 and has a crossover. Here again as with all
oscillators, its best to use it with another set of confirming indicators or
tools.
 
 
 
TEMPERATURE
Temperature is an oscillator that follows price movement. It follows certain
rules to give values of 5 to -5.
The rules for the temperature chart are as follows.
Set Result to 0.
if Today's Close > Yesterday's Close
Add 2 to the Result.
if Today's Close < Yesterday's Close
Subtract 2 from the Result.
if Today's Open < Today's Close
Add 2 to the Result.
if Today's Open > Today's Close
Subtract 2 from the Result.
if Today's low > Yesterday's Close
Add 1 to the Result.
if Today's High < Yesterday's Close
Subtract 1 from the Result
This is a very short-term oscillator. When the oscillator gets to the center in
a down-trend sell. In an uptrend you should buy when the signal is at the
center. Again use this system with other signals for confirmation of buy or
sell signals.
 
WILLIAMS %R
Williams %R (WR) is a momentum indicator developed by Larry Williams
that measures overbought and oversold levels. The calculation is similar to
the stochastic oscillator.
This is an excellent oscillator to use for short-term trading. Can be used
effectively with trend lines to determine quick trading signals.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LINEAR REGRESSION
Linear Regression (LR) is a statistical method for finding the "line of best
fit". Given a set of points, the least squares method is used to calculate a
line that best sums up the trend of the market. LR's use a complex statistical
calculation called Least Squares Method to calculate the line of best fit. It is
beyond the scope of this manual to go into detail of that calculation.
With the excellent center best fit trend line given by Linear Regression you
can effectively produce parallel trend lines at the top for taking profits in an
uptrend or at the bottom to determine if a market has broken its main trend
and to sell on the first reaction. See chart below.
 
 
 
HISTORICAL VOLATILITY RATIO
The Historical Volatility Ratio can be used to determine when a market is
going to become active. In the below example the market of Caterpillar
Tractor was moving sideways in a narrow ban. The Historical Volatility
Ratio was declining with a clear trend line down. When the ratio broke out
on the upside a change of trend was forecasted. A trend line could then be
drawn on the latest price trend on the stock and sold on the first reaction as
indicated below.
 
 
 
 
 
STANDARD DEVIATION
Standard Deviation (SD) can be used to measure volatility. It is normally
used with other indicators but can also be used on it's own. SD's are
calculated by finding the simple moving average over n bars, then summing
the squares of the difference between the data item and the moving average
for each of the n bars. This sum is divided by n and the square root is
calculated. This oscillator can be used as an divergent indicator of tops and
bottoms. You can buy on the trend line breaks of the Standard Deviation
Oscillator when you have clear divergence at the top.
VOLUME ADVANCE DECLINE
OSCILLATOR
The Volume Advance Decline Oscillator can be used with a trend line. The
trend line usually forms after the bottom and has usually 3 or more touches.
Once broken you can look to make a trade in the market waiting for the first
reaction.
 
 
 
MIDAS INDICATOR
The Midas (MDS) indicator was developed by Paul Levine. Midas is an
acronym for Marketing Interpretation/Data Analysis System. This system is
designed to focus on the dynamic interplay of support/resistance and
accumulation/distribution in determining price behavior. A Midas chart can
clarify an otherwise random or chaotic market.
In the following chart we used it to indicate a major down trend. Reactions
against the main trend could be sold using the indicator after it dropped
under the reaction support.
 
 
 
MONEY FLOW INDEX
Money Flow Index (MFI) is a similar indicator to the RSI, but the MFI uses
volume to measure the strength of the money flowing in and out of the
security.
The calculation is done in the following steps.
1. For each bar, average the High, Low, and Close.
2. The MF value is equal to the Average x Volume.
3. If the value in step 1 is higher than the previous, it is considered to be a
positive money value, otherwise negative. The positive money flow is then
the sum of all the positive money values over the number of bars.
4. The money ratio is then + MF divided by -MF.
5. The Index is then 100 - (100 / (1 + Money Ratio)).
This oscillator can be used like the RSI indicator. It display divergence and
high levels at 70 on the scale can be generally sold in a downtrend. In an up
trend the levels of 30 could be bought. Use it with confirming indicators.
 
OPEN INTEREST
Open Interest (OI) is used to depict the number of contracts outstanding, i.e.
the number of contracts that must be settled before the expiry date of the
commodity. Not all data files have OI.
In a downtrend rising OI is bearish. New shorts are entering the market.
In an uptrend rising OI is bullish. New longs are entering the market.
In a downtrend falling OI is bullish. Shorts are liquidating.
In an uptrend fall OI is bearish. Longs are liquidating out of the market.
In the below example with rising OI in the downtrend a sell was given
when we broke the upward reaction line on the left of the chart. A buy was
finally given on the right side of the chart when OI began to rise and the
downward trend line broke.
ON
BALANCE VOLUME
On Balance Volume (OBV) is an oscillator, which relates price movement
to volume.
The OBV is a cumulative summation based on certain criteria. They are as
follows:
If today's close is greater than yesterday's close
OBV = Yesterday's OBV + Today's Volume.
If today's close is less than yesterday's close
OBV = Yesterday's OBV - Today's Volume.
If today's close is the same as yesterday's close
OBV = Yesterday's OBV.
In the below example when OBV is in a downtrend sell all rallies and when
it’s in an uptrend buy all reactions.
ON
BALANCE VOLUME %
As per On Balance Volume however the scale is calculated as a %.
As the previous example with OBV use the same strategy when OBV% is
in an uptrend buy all reactions and when OBV% is in a downtrend sell all
rallies.
VOLUME
Volume is important as it confirms the direction of the move. A rising trend
should have rising volume and a falling trend should have falling volume to
have a bullish market. Conversely a bearish trend has rising volume in a
falling market and falling volume on a rising market.
 
 
 
PRICE MOVES
Previously we indicated that all stocks and commodities move within
certain price moves. See the following.
35*.25 = 8.75
35*.375= 13.125
35*.5 = 17.5
35*.625 = 21.875
35*.75 = 26.25
35*.875 = 30.625
35*1 = 35
35*2= 70
35*2.5=122
Look at the following chart of Dupont that we have been working with and
you will see that the first move A approximately 13.125 points, B equaled
8.75 points, C = 21.875 points and from the bottom to the top 26.25 points.
If you add up A, B and C point moves you get the magical number of 35!
See the following chart.
 
 
GAPS
A gap is an open space on your charts between one trading day and another.
Gaps usually are something that is nothing to think about. In fact most gaps
are usually closed within 1 to 3 days. Some gaps are closed several days or
weeks later. Some traders use them as objectives. An open gap is many
times a target for a potential move. See the following chart.
When a gap occurs with velocity, it is something to watch. It’s called a
breakaway gap. In most cases it is the beginning of an accelerated move.
The top or the bottom then must be considered as in place. The move does
not start from that top or bottom but from the gap. The move starts from the
bottom of the gap in a downtrend and the top of a gap in a uptrend. The
move will last one of these numbers:
35*.25 = 8.75
35*.375= 13.125
35*.5 = 17.5
35*.625 = 21.875
35*.75 = 26.25
35*.875 = 30.625
35*1 = 35
35*2= 70
35*2.5=122
See the gaps on the below chart. They both started off with a bang and
continued strong and made one of the numbers above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
OTHER GAPS
The other types of gaps are the midpoint gap and the exhaustion gap. The
midpoint gap occurs after a move has started. In the middle of the move it
makes an open gap. From that point you can measure in the middle of the
gap and project a measured move. In the following chart you see an
example of a midpoint gap, which projected to an exact top. Later on you
also see an exhaustion gap that terminated the move of the stock. See the
chart below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ELLIPSES
There are many mathematicians in the world. Most of them understand
what mathematical equations make up the ellipse and how it works. Very
few of them know that stocks and commodities move in fixed ellipses. By
experimenting with ellipses there are a few numbers that work nicely. You
must experiment to find one that works with an individual market. Two
ellipses normally work with a market. A large ellipse is normally used for a
primary move and a smaller one is used for a reactionary move. The sizes
of ellipses are usually 6, 9, 12, 15 and 18 ratios to each other. The
movement is not over until the market breaks out of the ellipse. The market
is almost like a gold fish in a bowl. Once it’s there it’s almost impossible to
escape unless it gets out with a gap. The beginning of an ellipse is usually
within a previous ellipse. You need at lease two points to start a new ellipse.
In the following example we have 3 points A, B and C. Notice how the
prices move and touch the outer edge and the axis of the ellipse. This gives
you the direction of the move that can be expected. You need at least 5
points to put the ellipse in the right direction. See the chart below.
DIFFERENT SIZES OF ELLIPSES
In the following example you see how General Motors stock moved within
the two different sizes of ellipses. One generally for impulse moves and the
other for reactionary moves. You need at least five points to consider an
ellipse valid before you can start a new one. See the following chart.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHANNELS WITH ELLIPSES
Many markets will move with ellipses, which are connected together. The
ellipses actually form a channel by themselves. Trend lines can even be
placed on these channels. When the channel is broken by price action the
trend is over. The trader should then be looking for signs of a new emerging
trend.
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHANNELS WITH ELLIPSES – CHANGE
OF TREND
Looking at the chart below you can see that a change of trend occurred
when the primary channel of ellipses was broken. Look how the new
channel forms after the downward breakout.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIDEWAYS TRENDING CHANNEL
The following is an illustration of just a sideways trending chart formed
with ellipses. You can clearly see how the ellipses fit with the price action
of this chart.
 
 
 
CHANGE OF DIRECTION CHANNEL
This example shows how price action changed directions from an upward
move to a downward move. The action toward the bottom of the chart
shows a decline and loss of momentum.
 
 
 
 
FORMATIONS – EGG OF COLUMBUS
George Bayer was a famous market trader, course and newsletter writer in
the 1940’s. He felt it was his job was to teach those interested in how to
trade the markets with strange, innate but accurate cycles. He felt that
writers such as Swedenborg who had written 20,000 pages and Athenaeus
who had written some 3000 pages had just scratched the surface of cycle
study. He wanted to condense the study of cycles down to just a very few
pages but make every page count and mean a lot. He wrote several courses
and a series of newsletters.
He also felt that the people living ages ago were much smarter and wiser
than anyone living in his time. He felt that he got his wisdom from studying
them. He said that he didn’t owe his generation a nickel’s worth of thanks.
He even said the current generation held him back; having to wade through
all their works until his hard thinking put him on the right tract.
He felt that the forecast of what is to come, for example, in wheat or corn
next year was preset and continuing. To be successful all one had to do was
to try to locate the cycle and ride with it. He felt this was extremely difficult
to do for the average person. He felt that each living creature on earth has
its own cycle it was living in. This cycle may or may not be harmonious
with the cycles of other living things. He felt that if someone’s own cycle
was disharmonious with stocks or commodities that person will never want
to trade in them. Others whose cycles are harmonious with stocks will trade
them and win.
He felt that traders get vaccinated with false opinions as to what moves the
markets. This comes from newspapers, books written on the subject of
market analysis and today even television. Look at CNBC. It clearly and
constantly bombards the public with it’s opinions and the opinions of its
guests. The ideas and opinions of these people are imbedded into the minds
of the public and it’s almost impossible to get these ideas out of their minds.
The public thinks they know what affects the market. For example frost in
Iowa or rain in Kansas moves wheat up and down.
 
In his course the Egg of Columbus, George Bayer brings up the study of
Athenaeus and his study of cycles. There is a natural law which says: you’ll
get what is coming to you and you never will get that which is not meant
for you and therefore you should be able to see quickly how marvelous
nature shows itself in all things. He felt that it must be very clear that there
is an interweaving of cycles. The secrets contained in Athenaeus could be
written with one word or one title: Dinner Table.
He said that what can be understood from the knowledge of cycles is that
the cycles of markets, of business, the life of a human being, bank accounts,
trading accounts, wheat, cotton, and every commodity consists of a series of
cycles, long and short, which form one whole. Links form a chain. He
called these cycles serpents. The formation of these serpents is represented
in things which we eat and in the rotation how we eat the various foods. He
said you would not start with the roast when eating a seven-course dinner,
but you begin with the Hors d’Oeuvre or Antipasto, that is with radishes,
green onions, pickles, salami, anchovies, and caviar. He felt that the Dinner
Table was not his ideas, but what the Ancients had known thoroughly. He
felt that knowing the theory of the Dinner Table we had to know something
about eating and the series in which the dishes of food were served at
dinner. There is a definite sequence of how dinner should be served.
Here is the sequence of how food should be served at dinner:
1) Begin with the Hors d’Oeuvre and a cocktail
2) Next follows the soup
3) After the soup comes the fish
4) Small round boiled potatoes are served with the fish.
5) White wine is served with the fish.
6) When the fish as been eaten, we start with the roast
7) With the roast goes red wine.
8) After the roast comes the sweet stuff
9) With it should be served Champagne
10) Then we get cheese and crackers
11) Lastly we get almonds and nuts with which goes a little brandy.
He felt that not only do we have to know about how we eat dinner but also
we must know about how the dinner must be disposed of.
Another important point about cycles that George Bayer brought out is that
there is an interweaving of cycles. Those who work with ellipses know that
the new cycle has to be set within the end of the old ellipse. Fixed stars
form distinct pictures of animals in the evening sky.   These animals are
running around the globe in millions. They eventually die. Don’t forget that
these animals perpetuate themselves throughout time. A new baby animal is
born and then a parent dies later. In other words a new cycles starts before
the old one ends. Please remember this important point.
Thus what Mr. Bayer discovered is that all the markets represent full a man
who lives, eats and disposes of waste matter. He felt this was an extremely
important secret that he rediscovered. Mr. Bayer felt that the sooner you
work your mind in to understanding such a menu and go over the various
dishes and their sequence the better you will understand the cycles of the
markets. The market lives on food, not food as such but pictures of food
arranged in the form of a top-notch meal, which includes wine and
champagne.
Therefore Mr. Bayer said that if you take any bar chart all you do is look for
the Hors d’ Oeuvre, then for the soup, afterwards for the fish and its fins,
then for the roasted bird with its neck sticking out and even its beak from
which it spits out a nut or an almond, then you have gone through the
complete bull phase. You know the bull phase is over because he has to get
rid of that what he has eaten and begins first to p—and then to s—and he
repeats that several times, in fact he does this so often until the tongue
hands out of his mouth, because he is so hungry that he must eat at once.
The handing out of the tongue is the surest sign that he is cleaned from what
he had eaten and you will never forget the picture of a tongue if you see
one.
Remember Mr. Bayer measured everything with a 6, 9 and ½ of a 6-inch
ellipse. This was based on the chart paper he used and the grid per inch. But
using this for the basis of his measurement he said the size of the:
1) Tongue is about ½ of a 6-inch ellipse.
2) The fish takes a 6-inch ellipse
3) The bird and the neck takes a 9-inch ellipse.
4) The bird alone takes a 6-inch ellipse.
5) The disposal bear move takes a 6, 9 or even 12 or 18-inch ellipse
depending on the size of the dinner whereby the first p. can be a 6-inch
ellipse with a comeback of half an ellipse when the hill of s. is make
followed by another p. and s. until the intake is thoroughly disposed of.
The size of any move depends upon the size of the tongue that sticks out. In
the tongue is contained the Hors d’Oeuvre.
The following illustration is a drawing of exactly how Mr. Bayer thought a
dinner course should look.
EXAMPLE OF DINNER WITH REAL-
CHART
The following is an example of how the dinner picture can be used with one
of today’s charts. Mr. Bayer’s pictures of the various parts of the up move
are similar to the Elliott Wave Theory. The advantage of Mr. Bayer’s
methods is that he recognizes each part of the move with pictures of parts of
the dinner. He even knows the sizes of the parts of the dinner in relation to
the standard ellipses he used.
 
 
 
 
ELLIPSES WORK WITH STANDARD
FORMATIONS
We have found that ellipses work in virtually all-standard chart formations.
In most cases the ellipses are of the same size. As Mr. Bayer said a new
cycle begins before the old one ends. There is an exception to that rule and
that is in the area of gaps. Gaps seem to create an entirely new ellipse or a
near part of a cycle. In the following chart illustrations of standard
formation you will see how we used ellipses. Once you find the ellipse that
works you can generally continue to use the same one over and over again.
In some cases you might use two sizes of ellipses for chart formation. These
chart formations are of minor degrees. After a while you will get used to
using the ellipse. It clearly helps you define a chart movement. It also helps
you determine when a cycle or movement begins and ends. These ellipses
can also be tied to other technical analysis tools such as volume,
stochastics, RSI and others.
 
 
 
 
 
BROADENING BOTTOM FORMATION
In this formation price comes down into an expanding triangle bottom. The
formation makes at least 2 higher highs and two lower lows. It must make
at least four touches of the triangle. Early on we found the size of the ellipse
the market was working in. There are two strategies to use. One strategy is
if you recognize the formation early then buy the low at point 5. Put your
stop right under the low you bought at. Sell at the top of the triangle at the
end of the ellipse or wait for the breakout and sell that the top of the
breakout ellipse. The second strategy is to wait for the breakout. Buy
immediately and sell at the top of the ellipse. Put your stop under the
triangle breakout point.
 
 
 
BROADENING TOP FORMATION
This type of formation is identical to the broadening bottom formation. It
needs at least 4 touches of the triangle. The price should eventually
breakdown out of the formation and decline. The strategy is to short at point
5 with a close stop, take profits at the bottom of the triangle or wait for the
downside breakout and take profits at the bottom of the ellipse. The second
strategy would be to wait for the breakout on the downside. Short
immediately with a stop inside of the triangle. Then take profits at the
bottom of the ellipse.
 
 
 
 
RIGHT ANGLE FORMATION
The right angle formation has a flat bottom and a rising angle top. There
needs to be at least four touches on the triangle. You can buy at point 5 with
a close stop. Take profits at the top of the triangle or wait for it to breakout
and take profits at the end of the next ellipse. A second strategy would be to
wait for the breakout and then take profits at the end of the next ellipse.
 
 
 
 
 
 
RIGHT ANGLE FORMATION – 5 POINTS
TOUCHING
Here is another example of a right hand angle formation with 5 points
touching. It’s somewhat sloppy compared to the first example. It does
however work with the same strategy as the first example. Buy at point 5 or
on the breakout and sell at the top of the first ellipse outside of the triangle.
 
 
 
 
 
 
RIGHT ANGLE DESCENDING
FORMATION
This formation has a flat top and a descending lower angle bottom. Again
this triangle must has at least four touch points. Strategy is to buy at point 4
with a close stop. Sell at the top of the triangle. A second strategy would be
to sell after the breakout at the top of  the ellipse. In this example the market
gapped. This is where the bottom of the ellipse was placed according to the
rules. With its accelerated move it quickly make the top of the ellipse.
 
 
 
 
 
BROADENING ASCENDING WEDGE
FORMATION
Here is an example of a broadening ascending wedge formation. Both the
top and the bottom slant at an upward angle. There must be at least four
touches in the triangle. When it breaks down it usually falls rapidly.
Strategy is to sell at the top of the ellipse in the wedge near point 5. You can
also sell when it breaks down out of the triangle. Take profits at the bottom
of the ellipse outside of the triangle.
 
 
 
 
THREE BUMP BOTTOM             
One of the most reliable signals is a three-bump bottom. If you see the next
chart the formation always starts with two thrusts down and finally one last
thrust with more power. After you have that sequence of thrusts, the market
turns back to the upside again. Strategy would be to buy the 3rd bottom
once you have your ellipse clearly set. You could also wait for a breakout of
the ellipse and buy on the first reaction in the first upward trading ellipse.
 
 
 
 
 
THREE BUMP TOP
Just like we had a three-bump bottom, we can also have a three-bump top.
The best strategy is to try to sell the 3rd top. Try to find the next ellipse and
sell into it.
 
 
 
 
 
CUP AND HANDLE
The cup with handle is a formation where you have a big rounded bottom
and start to rise then prices break out and fall back to the cup lip. In the
following example I have used ellipses to give you an idea how the cup
forms in one. Also I have places a small ellipse over the cup handle. The
best strategy to use is to buy when prices come back to the cup lip. Follow
the prices with moving stops from there on.
 
 
 
 
GAP & BOUNCE
One thing to look for in volatile markets is the gap and bounce. It usually
occurs because of a news event. The market will gap down or up with a
large space between previous day’s prices. It will continue to move and
have a slight reaction or recovery high in the case of a downtrend. This is
where to take a position in the direction of the big gap. You can place the
ellipse at the bottom of the gap in a downtrend. See chart below. In a up
trend you would place the ellipse at the top of the gap. Strategy would be to
take profits at the bottom of the ellipse.
 
 
 
 
DIAMOND TOPS AND BOTTOMS
The diamond tops and bottoms occur when almost a small head and
shoulders formation appears and forms inside a diamond outline. In some
cases sides 1, 2, 3 and 4 are equal, but not necessary. In the case below
when prices break out to the downside it’s objective is determined from the
distance from the head to the bottom measured from the right apex. In many
cases it has an expected bottom from a near term previous bottom. Strategy
would be to short it when it breaks out of the diamond and take profits at
it’s objective, the previous expected bottom line or the bottom of the ellipse.
 
 
 
DOUBLE BOTTOMS
Double bottom occur at nearly the same level. The middle of the formation
has a high and this is the confirmation line for a potential breakout. When a
breakout occurs you can buy the first pull back to the breakout line. Use
close stops for your protection. Your objective measurement is taken from
the first bottom or second bottom to the confirmation line. Measure up
again from the confirmation line the same distance. You can also use
previous tops to take profits on and the ellipses the market is working with
as objectives. In this case the market accelerated upward with a lot of
velocity. The breakaway gap indicated much higher prices until we finally
had the exhaustion gap, which signaled the end of the trend.
 
 
DOUBLE BOTTOM FAILURE
In this case a double bottom formed and was somewhat sloppy. It finally
broke over the confirmation line and went to the end of the projected ellipse
and failed. The ellipse was projected from the gap that occurred after the
second bottom. Since it already made it’s ellipse objective when it broke out
it was not a buy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOUBLE TOP
In this example of a double top it was very clear when it broke its
confirmation line. It had an excellent pull back to short on. There was no
gap, so the ellipse indicated it’s objective down to the previous projected
low. Prices dropped rapidly down to the ellipse’s objective and ended right
after the exhaustion gap occurred near the bottom.
 
 
 
 
 
PENNANTS
These types of formations are short in duration and go the direction of the
main trend. They are usually a pause in the direction. You can usually buy
the breakout of the formation and sellout at the objective. The objective is
measured from the start of the trend to the middle of the pennant formation.
The same distance is then measured up from the same point. In this case
there was also a gap allowing an ellipse to be placed in such a position as to
indicate the same objective as the one from the pennant measurement. Also
in this case we had a three-bump top ending at the top of the ellipse.
 
 
 
 
FLAGS
Flags are about the same thing as pennants. The formation comes to a point
instead of being open. The measurement technique is the same.   The
measurement from start to the middle of the flat is taken. Then project this
up the same amount to give you your objective. In this case an ellipse was
created giving the same objective. The ellipse was started from the gap. See
chart below. Also notice the three-bump top indicating the end of the
uptrend.
 
 
 
 
 
HEAD AND SHOULDERS BOTTOMS
The head and shoulders bottom is formed by three thrusts to the downside.
The left shoulder and right shoulder are usually higher than the head. The
neckline comes off the left shoulder high and hits the right shoulder high.
When a breakout occurs it usually falls back to the neckline or even below
it sometime. The stop should be placed under the support of the bottom
right shoulder. The objective after the breakout is the distance of the head
from the neckline forecasted up the same amount. The previous high is also
an objective as is the objective of the ellipse formed after the gap occurred
from the buying pullback.
 
 
 
 
HEAD AND SHOULDERS TOP
Here is an example of a Head and Shoulders Top. It formed with three
failing thrusts to the upside. The head was higher than the left or right
shoulder. The price fell back to the neckline several times. Strategy would
be to short after the break under the neckline. Keep stop close. Objective
would be the head and shoulders objective, the previous near term low
objective and the end of the ellipse. The ellipse was placed on the last gap.
 
 
 
 
INSIDE BAR
The inside bar is a bar with a price range narrower then the day before.  You
must wait for the direction of the breakout and go with it. It usually
produces a small move. Ellipses can be used in conjunction with this signal
for short-term objectives.
 
 
 
 
ISLAND REVERSALS
This is a formation where prices gap up into and then gap down out of. The
formation is rather rare. When you do find one it is usually news driven.
You should watch carefully for gaps to use ellipses on to measure objectives
from.
 
 
 
 
 
MEASURED OBJECTIVE DOWN
Using measured objectives if fairly reliable. You merely take the first move
down A to B and wait for the reaction to C. You then add the same distance
A to B on to C on the downside. You also tie into the projection of the
previous low, which is near the same measured move.
 
 
 
 
MEASURED OBJECTIVE UP
Using the same technique as the Measured Objective Down except in
reverse you take the measurement of A to B and add it on to C giving you
D, the Measured Move Objective. Add also the previous high objective to
give you a second point.
 
 
 
 
ONE-DAY REVERSAL
The one-day reversal is a signal that is usually good for a few days of a
price move. In this case we tided it in with an ellipse for a downside
objective.
 
 
 
OUTSIDE BAR
The outside bar is a bar that has a higher high and lower low than the day
before. Just like the inside, it will many times give a price reversal that lasts
a few days. You should go with the breakout in the direction of the move.
Other techniques should be used with it for price projections.
 
 
 
TWO REVERSE BARS
These are two adjacent bars stuck up or down out of the formation. They
usually give a minor move in days. Sometimes these two bars stick out of
the ellipses to a small degree. In the following example three are given
which gave very good price moves.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TWO REVERSE BARS ON WEEKLY
CHARTS
The same two reversal bars that work on daily charts also work to a better
degree on weekly charts. Ellipses can also be used as a measuring device on
these charts also.
 
 
 
 
RECTANGLE BOTTOMS
Rectangle bottoms are very reliable. The longer the width the more reliable
they are. It’s best to have at least two touches on the top and bottom of the
rectangle. In this case we had six touches. When the breakout first occurs,
90 percent of the time you will have a pullback to buy. The minimum
objective is the height of the triangle. The maximum objective is the width
of the rectangle. You can tie in other things like a near term pervious high
and the objective of the ellipse.
 
 
 
 
RECTANGLE TOPS
Here is an example of a rectangle top. It’s just the reverse of the rectangle
bottom. It needs at least 4 hits on the rectangle to make it valid. When it
breaks down short on the first reaction. One objective is determined by the
rectangle height, a second objective is determined by the triangle width.
The previous low is another objective as well as the ellipse objective.
 
 
 
 
ROUNDED BOTTOM
The rounded bottom is a good signal. Normally you should wait for it to
break out of the top of the rounded bottom. Buy the first reaction. The
measured objective is the height of the rounded bottom added to its top. The
ellipse also gives you another measurement for a potential move.
 
 
 
 
ROUNDED TOP
The rounded top is the opposite of the rounded bottom. Once the formation
forms and breaks out under the bottom of the rounded top it can be shorted
usually on a reaction. The measured objective is the distance from the top
of the rounded top to the bottom added on to the bottom of the rounded top.
 
 
 
 
ROUNDING CORRECTION UPTREND
This is a minor type of a correction in an upward move that has a rounding
bottom. Try to buy at the bottom portion of the round bottom. The objective
is the top of the measured move, which is taken from the bottom of the
ellipse to the top add on to the bottom of the next ellipse.
 
 
 
ROUNDED CORRECTION DOWNTREND
You can also have the same rounded correction in a downtrend. The
measured objective is taken from the top of the ellipse to the bottom and
added to the top of the next ellipse for the projection. In this case there was
a gap in which a new ellipse was created as much lower prices were
indicated.
 
 
 
ASCENDING TRIANGLE
The ascending triangle is a very common formation in an uptrend. You need
at least three points to hit in the formation. The next measured move is
taken from the difference of the top of the triangle and the bottom of the
triangle added to the breakout point of the triangle. It can also be bought
when it breaks out of the triangle and has its first reaction.
 
 
 
 
DESCENDING TRIANGLE
The descending triangle formation is the opposite of the ascending triangle
formation with the same type of rules. In this case the market formed the
descending triangle. It broke out on the downside. It could have been
shorted on the break with the first reaction. It did not make its measured
move initially, but it did make the ellipse projected move later on. Later on
it also made it’s descending triangle measured move.
 
 
 
SYMMETRICAL BOTTOM TRIANGLES
The symmetrical bottom is a continuation triangle in the direction of the
main trend. You can buy breakouts of the triangle in the direction of the
trend. Buying the first reaction can also be done. Measured objectives can
be taken from the breakout point using the high to low measurement of the
triangle at point A.
 
 
 
SYMMETRICAL TOP TRIANGLES
Symmetrical top triangles are small triangles in the direction of the main
move. You can buy breakouts, which usually go to the measured objectives
taken from the height of the triangle at the widest point from the breakout
point. In this chart the first move up out of the triangle hit the measured
move exactly.
 
 
 
 
 
TRIPLE BOTTOMS
Triple bottoms are excellent pattern formations. The buy is a breakout about
the breakout line and a slight pullback. The measured objective is taken
from the lowest point in the triple bottom to the breakout line and added to
the breakout line. The ellipses can also be used for objectives.
 
 
 
 
TRIPLE TOP
The triple top is another excellent formation. The signal to go short was
given when prices penetrated the breakdown line in this example. Wait for
the pull back to enter. To find the measured objective find the highest top
down to the breakdown line and subtract it from the breakdown line. Also
note how good the ellipses measured the move.
 
 
 
 
 
FALLING WEDGE
This is an excellent wedge formation, which has two downward slopping
trend lines. It can be bought on a breakout of the downward slopping trend
line after a slight reaction. Measured objective is taken from adding the
widest part of the triangle added on to the breakout point. In this example
the previous high was also an objective, which it did hit. The ellipses also
did a fine projecting job in this example.
 
 
 
 
RISING WEDGE
This is a bearish pattern in a downtrend. You can short the breakout of the
lower trend line. The measured objective figured from taking the widest
part of the wedge and subtracting it from the breakout point on the
downside. After it broke out of the wedge it gapped giving us a clear place
to put the ellipse. The market finally made its measured objective later on in
the chart.
 
 
 
 
 
 
REVERSAL BAR
A reversal bar is when the market makes a higher high and lower low and
closes under the prior days low. The market can be shorted on the close of
the same day with a stop over the high of the day.
 
 
 
 
SUMMARY
This book was written to help you with Ellipses and Patterns and many of
the other techniques available in the arena of technical analysis. You should
study the techniques carefully to see if you might integrate them into your
own trading system. The system you use should be an accumulation of all
the techniques that you have found to be useful in your own method of
trading. You should also back test any method you get to make sure that it
has the reliability that you feel is necessary to trade successfully.
The market master Mr. George Bayer developed many of the techniques
that were illustrated in this book in the late 40’s. Recognition should be
given to this man. He spent years studying the works of the ancient
philosophers and poured over hundreds of charts to develop his trading
theories.
All of the techniques illustrated in this book were taken from charts
produced from the Market Analyst II software. Market Analyst III will be
out by the time this book is published and will have many new significant
features.
The Market Analyst is the only known software package that can create and
manipulate ellipses on technical analysis charts. It can also perform
multiple Gann and astrological trading techniques on charts unlike any
other package on the market. You owe it to yourself after reading this book
to take a 30-day free trial of the software.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COPYRIGHT
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system
or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording, scanning or otherwise.
Parts of this book came from the ELWAVE software manual produced by
Prognosis Software Development. This publication is written to provide
accurate information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with
the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering
professional services. If professional advice or other expert assistance is
required, the services of a competent professional person should be sought.
CAVEAT: It should be noted that all stock and commodity trades, patterns,
charts, systems, etc., discussed in this book are for illustrative purposes only
and are not to be considered as specific advisory recommendations. Further
note that no method of trading or investing is foolproof or without
difficulty, and past performance is no guarantee of future performance. All
ideas and material presented are entirely those of the author and do not
reflect those of the publisher or bookseller.
All charts in this book were from the Market Analyst II with permission of
Market Analyst, PO Box 265, Albany Creek 4035, QUEENSLAND,
AUSTRALIA
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Printed in the United States of America
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21
