archive.is
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The
New Yorker
By D. T. Max
49–62 minutes
Play/Pause
Volume
A visit to a scientific-research center usually begins at a star
professor’s laboratory that is abuzz with a dozen postdocs
collaborating on various experiments. But when I recently toured the
Flatiron Institute, which formally opened in September, in lower
Manhattan, I was taken straight to a computer room. The only sound
came from a susurrating climate-control system. I was surrounded by
rows of black metal cages outfitted, from floor to ceiling, with black
metal shelves filled with black server nodes: boxes with small,
twinkling lights and protruding multicolored wires. Tags dangled from
some of the wires, notes that the tech staff had written to themselves. I
realized that I’d seen a facility like this only in movies. Nick Carriero,
one of the directors of what the institute calls its “scientific-computing
core,” walked me around the space. He pointed to a cage with empty
shelves. “We’re waiting for the quantum-physics people to start
showing up,” he said.
The Flatiron Institute, which is in an eleven-story fin-de-siècle building
on the corner of Twenty-first Street and Fifth Avenue, is devoted
exclusively to computational science—the development and
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
1 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
application of algorithms to analyze enormous caches of scientific
data. In recent decades, university researchers have become adept at
collecting digital information: trillions of base pairs from sequenced
human genomes; light measurements from billions of stars. But,
because few of these scientists are professional coders, they have
often analyzed their hauls with jury-rigged code that has been farmed
out to graduate students. The institute’s aim is to help provide top
researchers across the scientific spectrum with bespoke algorithms
that can detect even the faintest tune in the digital cacophony.
Daily
Our flagship newsletter highlights the best of The New Yorker,
including top stories, fiction, humor, and podcasts.
I first visited the Flatiron Institute in June. Although the official opening
was still a few months away, the lobby was complete. It had that old-
but-new look of expensively renovated interiors; every scratch in the
building’s history had been polished away. Near the entrance hangs a
Chagall-like painting, “Eve and the Creation of the Universe,” by Aviva
Green. Green’s son happened to be spending the year at the institute,
as a fellow in astrophysics. “Every day, he walks into the lobby and
sees his mother’s picture,” Jim Simons, the institute’s founder, told
me.
Simons, a noted mathematician, is also the founder of Renaissance
Technologies, one of the world’s largest hedge funds. His income last
year was $1.6 billion, the highest in the hedge-fund industry. You might
assume that he had to show up every day at Renaissance in order to
make that kind of money, but Simons, who is seventy-nine, retired
eight years ago from the firm, which he started in the late seventies.
His Brobdingnagian compensation is a result of a substantial stake in
the company. He told me that, although he has little to do with
Renaissance’s day-to-day activities, he occasionally offers ideas. He
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
2 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
said, “I gave them one three months ago”—a suggestion for
simplifying the historical data behind one of the firm’s trading
algorithms. Beyond saying that it didn’t work, he wouldn’t discuss the
details—Renaissance’s methods are proprietary and secret—but he
did share with me the key to his investing success: he “never overrode
the model.” Once he settled on what should happen, he held tight until
it did.
The Flatiron Institute can be seen as replicating the structure that
Simons established at Renaissance, where he hired researchers to
analyze large amounts of data about stocks and other financial
instruments, in order to detect previously unseen patterns in their
fluctuations. These discoveries gave Simons a conclusive edge. At
the Flatiron, a nonprofit enterprise, the goal is to apply Renaissance’s
analytical strategies to projects dedicated to expanding knowledge
and helping humanity. The institute has three active divisions—
computational biology, computational astronomy, and computational
quantum physics—and has plans to add a fourth.
Simons works out of a top-floor corner office across the street from the
institute, in a building occupied by its administrative parent, the
Simons Foundation. We sat down to talk there, in front of a huge
painting of a lynx that has killed a hare—a metaphor, I assumed, for
his approach to the markets. I was mistaken, Simons said: he liked it,
and his wife, Marilyn, did not, so he had removed it from their mansion
in East Setauket, on Long Island. (Marilyn, who has a Ph.D. in
economics, runs the business side of the foundation, and the institute,
from two floors below.) An Archimedes screw that he enjoyed fiddling
with sat on a table next to a half-filled ashtray. Simons smokes
constantly, even in enclosed conference rooms. He pointed out that,
whatever the potential fine for doing so is, he can pay it.
Simons has an air of being both pleased with himself and ready to be
pleased by others. He dresses in expensive cabana wear: delicate
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
3 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
cotton shirts paired with chinos that are hiked high and held up by an
Indian-bead belt. He grew up in the suburbs of Boston, and speaks
with the same light Massachusetts accent as Michael Bloomberg, with
frequent pauses and imprecisions. He sometimes uses the words “et
cetera” instead of finishing a thought, perhaps because he is
abstracted, or because he has learned that the intricacies of his mind
are not always interesting to others, or because, when you are as rich
as Simons, people always wait for you to finish what you are saying.
On a wall, Simons had hung a framed slide from a presentation on the
Chern-Simons theory. He helped develop the theory when he was in
his early thirties, in collaboration with the famed mathematician Shiing-
Shen Chern. The theory captures the subtle properties of three-
dimensional spaces—for example, the shape that is left if you cut out
a complicated knot. It became a building block of string theory,
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
4 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
quantum computing, and condensed-matter physics. “I have to point
out, none of these applications ever occurred to me,” he told me. “I do
the math, they do the physics.”
High-level mathematics is a young person’s game—practitioners tend
to do their best work before they are forty—but Simons continued to
do ambitious mathematics work well into adulthood. In his sixties, after
the death of his son Nick, who drowned in Bali in 2003, he returned to
it. “When you’re really thinking hard about mathematics, you’re in your
own world,” he said. “And you’re cushioned from other things.”
(Simons lost another son, Paul, in a bike accident, in 1996.) During
these years, Simons published a widely cited paper, “Axiomatic
Characterization of Ordinary Differential Cohomology,” in the Journal
of Topology. He told me about his most recent project: “The question
is, does there exist a complex structure on the six-dimensional
sphere? It’s a great problem, it’s very old, and no one knows the
answer.” Marilyn told me she can tell that her husband is thinking
about math when his eyes glaze over and he starts grinding his jaw.
Our discussion turned to the Flatiron Institute. Renaissance’s
computer infrastructure, he said, had been a central part of its
success. At universities, Simons said, coding tends to be an erratic
process. He said of the graduate students and postdocs who handled
such work, “Some of them are pretty good code writers, and some of
them are not so good. But then they leave, and there’s no one to
maintain that code.” For the institute, he has hired two esteemed
coders from academia: Carriero, who had led my tour, had been
recruited from Yale, where he had developed the university’s high-
performance computing capabilities for the life sciences; Ian Fisk had
worked at cern, the particle-physics laboratory outside Geneva.
Simons offered them greater authority and high salaries. “They’re the
best of the breed,” he said. Carriero and Fisk sometimes consult with
their counterparts at Renaissance about technical matters.
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
5 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
Simons’s emphasis on what most of us think of as back-office
functions is of a piece with the distinctive computational focus of the
institute. The Flatiron doesn’t conduct any new experiments. Most of
its fellows collaborate with universities that generate fresh data from
“wet” labs—the ones with autoclaves and genetically engineered mice
—and other facilities. The institute’s algorithms and computer models
are meant to help its fellows uncover information hidden in data sets
that have already been collected: inferring the location of new planets
from the distorted space-time that surrounds them; identifying links to
mutations among apparently functionless parts of chromosomes. As a
result, the interior of the institute looks less like a lab than like an
ordinary Flatiron-district office: casually dressed people sitting all day
at desks, staring at screens, under high ceilings.
Simons has amassed the same processing capacity as would
normally be present in the computer hub of a mid-sized research
university: the equivalent of six thousand high-end laptops. This is
powerful, but not ostentatiously so. And, as Carriero conceded, it
“cannot be compared to the corporate-wide resources of an Amazon
or a Google.” But, because there are far fewer people at the Flatiron
Institute, each researcher has immediate access to tremendous
computing power. Carriero said that, by supplying scientists with state-
of-the-art “algorithms guidance” and “software guidance,” he can help
them maintain a laserlike focus on advancing science.
Simons has placed a big bet on his hunch that basic science will yield
to the same approach that made him rich. He has hired ninety-one
fellows in the past two years, and expects to employ more than two
hundred, making the Flatiron almost as big as the Institute for
Advanced Study, in Princeton, New Jersey. He is not worried about
the cost. “I originally thought seventy-five million a year, but now I’m
thinking it’s probably going to be about eighty,” he said. Given that
Forbes estimates Simons’s net worth to be $18.5 billion, supporting
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
6 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
the Flatiron Institute is, in financial terms, a lark. “Renaissance was a
lot of fun,” he told me. “And this is fun, too.”
The Flatiron Institute is part of a trend in the sciences toward privately
funded research. In the United States, basic science has traditionally
been paid for by universities or by the government, but private
institutes are often faster and more focussed, and the world is awash
in new fortunes. Since the nineties, when Silicon Valley began minting
billionaires, private institutes have sprung up across the country. In
1997, Larry Ellison, the co-founder of Oracle, launched the Ellison
Medical Foundation, in the Bay Area, to study the biology of aging. Six
years later, the Allen Institute for Brain Science, in Seattle, was
founded by Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft. In 2010, Eric
Schmidt, Google’s executive chairman, founded the Schmidt Ocean
Institute, in Palo Alto.
These institutes have done much good, in part by providing
alternatives to sclerotic systems: the Allen Institute has helped change
how neuroscience is done, speeding it up with such tools as
automated microscopy. But private foundations also have liabilities.
Wealthy benefactors inevitably direct their funding toward their
personal enthusiasms. “The fear with these billionaire donors is that
they’ll fund junky science, wasting money and time,” David Callahan,
the editor of the online magazine Inside Philanthropy, said.
Foundations are not taxed, so much of the money that supports them
is money that otherwise would have gone to the government.
Scientific mega-donors answer to no one but themselves. Private
institutes tend to have boards chosen by their founders, and are
designed to further the founders’ wishes, even beyond their deaths.
Rob Reich, a professor of political science at Stanford University and
an expert on philanthropy, told me, “Private foundations are a
plutocratic exercise of power that’s unaccountable, nontransparent,
donor-directed, and generously tax-subsidized. This seems like a very
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
7 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
peculiar institutional and organizational form to champion in a
democratic society.”
Simons, who, according to Forbes, is the twenty-fifth-wealthiest
person in America, could easily become the country’s largest private
funder of basic science. He pays for the institute through what he calls
his “domestic nonprofit office,” which has an endowment of nearly
three billion dollars. He also maintains a much larger charitable entity
in Bermuda, the Simons Foundation International. Simons mentioned
this foundation to me in conversation, but it has no Web page or public
presence. Details about the Bermuda entity were recently obtained by
the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, and became
part of its Paradise Papers project. The investigation revealed that the
Simons Foundation International has an estimated eight billion dollars
in assets, none of it taxed. It also has a peculiar provenance: in the late
seventies, just before Simons started Renaissance, a friend of his
parents put a hundred thousand dollars into a trust for him. Simons
said of the gift, with a shrug, “He liked me.”
Simons intends to draw on the Bermuda fortune to fund his charitable
projects as time wears on. “We’re spending four hundred and fifty
million a year,” Simons said. “Gradually, the Simons Foundation
International will take over much of the spending.”
While I was meeting with him one day in November, the Paradise
Papers story was breaking, and he was forced to respond to
questions from two newspapers that had the scoop, the Times and
the Guardian. He did not appreciate the papers’ implication that he
had selfishly avoided paying taxes, and suggested to me an alternate
headline: “brilliant mathematician makes billions and gives it all away
to charity.” (The Guardian described offshore trusts as “ideal vehicles
for concealing immense wealth.”)
I asked him if he felt that he was taxed fairly. “I pay a hell of a lot of
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
8 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
taxes,” he said. “Do I think it’s my share? Yes.” He defended his
Bermuda foundation as no different from any other asset. He said,
“Suppose you started a company, and you went public and you never
sold the shares, and these shares increased and increased in value.
You would not be paying any taxes until you sold some of those
shares. I wasn’t benefitting from it until such time as I would take the
money. I think that’s a perfectly reasonable thing to do.” What went
unmentioned was the size of the Bermuda asset.
We also spoke about a recent Senate subcommittee investigation:
Renaissance was accused of having used, in the aughts, unethical
trading tricks that had lowered its capital-gains taxes by $6.8 billion.
(Renaissance has maintained that it operated within the law.) Simons,
who had been the firm’s C.E.O. during this period, told me that he
hadn’t particularly been trying to avoid paying corporate taxes; he’d
mostly been trying to insulate the fund’s investments from risk. He said
of the company’s accounting tactics, “It was a way to limit loss, and it
was terrific, and also it gave us quite a lot of leverage.” He added, “And
when I heard it also would qualify us for long-term capital gains, I said,
‘O.K., maybe, but that’s not what I care about.’ ” Senator Ron Wyden,
of Oregon, the ranking Democrat on the Finance Committee, told me,
in an e-mail, “The law is very clear in this area. Renaissance
Technologies abused a tax shelter and pocketed billions from it.”
The capital-gains matter is now in arbitration, and I asked Simons how
much his net worth could be affected. “Modestly,” he said. Quickly, he
amended his answer: “More than modestly. I mean, it would affect
me.”
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
9 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
Edward McCaffery, a law professor and a tax-policy expert at the
University of Southern California, said, in an e-mail, “Democrats like
Simons, Bill Gates, and Warren Buffett might end up giving away all or
most of their wealth to charities of their choice, but they and their
families still lead lives of great power and privilege, with little tax. And
their charities reflect their values, without necessarily helping ordinary
—and taxpaying—citizens.” The taxes from an eight-billion-dollar
fortune could fund a lot of schools.
Simons is far more apologetic about the money he makes than about
the taxes he avoids paying. “I believe that the division of wealth we
have in the United States has been skewed too much, and I think it
would be better if it were less skewed,” he said. There was, however,
at least one positive outcome to this unfairness. “I’m a beneficiary of all
this, but, as for philanthropy and science, I think it’s a very good thing,
plain and simple,” he said. “We can go for things that other people
can’t.” With only a hint of defensiveness, he added, “Originally, all
science was supported by philanthropy. Galileo had his patrons.”
“Well, qué más?” Simons asked genially.
It was July, and some of the Flatiron Institute’s scientists were giving
him progress reports on their activities. That day, it was the
astrophysicists’ and the biologists’ turn; soon, the quantum physicists
would come. (Their group is so new that its leader was still based in
Paris.) The meetings took place, back to back, in a small conference
room, with Simons praising and prodding and smoking. Three
astronomers detailed their recent work on supernovas, gravitational
waves, and dwarf galaxies. Simons peppered them with questions.
“Does a black hole typically have a magnetic field?” he asked. (The
material that surrounds a black hole generates one, he was told.) He
was surprised to learn that astronomers cannot actually confirm the
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
10 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
accuracy of their most complex models. Two different computer
programs solving the same labyrinthine equation often come up with
substantially different answers. Simons objected: “Well, if it’s the same
physics in the first place, you’d think that the code would be
implementing the laws of physics, and it’s not going to change from
program to program!” For all of Simons’s interest in coding, he is not a
programmer himself. He thinks algorithmically, but on a whiteboard.
“Ideally, yes,” one of the astronomers reassured him. “But in practice
that is not the case.” Another scientist clarified: “The underlying
algorithms all are making simplifications. We’re never solving the
fundamental equations—we’re always approximating them. And
different approximations are made by different algorithms.” Simons,
schooled in the ideal world of mathematics, was visibly agitated.
The astronomers filed out, and the biologists filed in. A Russian-born
geneticist and computer scientist, Olga Troyanskaya, who is also a
professor at Princeton, told Simons about an algorithm she was
developing, which would predict the effects of specific mutations
within a given cell. She hoped that the program would eventually
suggest possibilities for medical treatments tailored to a patient’s
DNA. Troyanskaya then went through a list of other projects, at
whirlwind speed. She planned to mine the DNA of Neanderthals, to
predict how their genes would have been expressed, and her group
was also working on an algorithm that linked symptoms of autism to
portions of the genome which do not encode proteins.
“So this is all you’ve done?” Simons joked.
The next to speak was Dmitri Chklovskii, a neuroscientist whom
Simons recruited from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, where
he specialized in connectomes, or networks of neurons. He described
mapping the connectome of an Italian miniwasp, a parasite that
hatches inside the eggs of other insects. Such studies of simple
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
11 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
species can help uncover the complexities of how the human brain
computes. Simons perked up when he heard the story of the
miniwasps. “How long do they live?” he asked. When told only five
days, he responded, “But five good days.”
An applied mathematician named Alex Barnett discussed several
programs that the group had developed to analyze neuronal
processes. One of the most promising, MountainSort, improves the
parsing of brain-electrode recordings, in part by automating the
interpretation of the data. The program can tell you, before a rat
moves, whether it is thinking of turning right or left. The algorithm used
in the program may provide insight into how the brain controls
behavior. The institute has made the software available, without cost,
to other labs. Simons smiled when he heard that MountainSort was
being adopted by important research groups. “That’s pretty good,” he
said. (Chong Xie, a neural engineer at the University of Texas, e-
mailed me to say that MountainSort was “by far the best spike-sorting
tool we have tested,” and that the speed of data analysis had
increased as much as a hundredfold.)
Part of the Flatiron’s brief is to release coding projects such as
MountainSort as quickly as possible. Scholarship is similarly fast-
paced: in just a few years, Flatiron researchers have authored, or co-
authored, more than two hundred and eighty scientific papers.
“They’re busy boys!” Simons wrote to me, in an e-mail. (Of the ninety-
one fellows at the institute, twenty are women; seven of the nine group
leaders are men.)
Marilyn Simons told me that her husband is an “information
processor,” adding, “Whatever it is, he’ll chew it up.” Jim Simons told
me that he’s more comfortable discussing astronomy than biology,
because he understands the presentations better, but he seemed
adept at following abstruse discussions in both fields. It was clear that
he prefers application to theory, and exchanges that struck me as
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
12 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
numbingly detailed often seemed to excite him the most. He and the
astronomers spoke at length about how one might design software
that could chart the orbits of a billion stars using the fewest possible
lines of code. Talk of computer-language efficiency led to a discussion
of the Hawaiian language, which makes do with far fewer letters than
English.
According to Simons, his governing strategy is to hire brilliant,
motivated people and then give them free rein. “Scientists don’t want
to be told what to work on,” he said. But his role seemed closer to that
of a newspaper editor or a sports coach, persuading, rousing, and
sometimes cajoling his team to do better work. Simons has spent his
career honing a particular algorithm: how to manage talented
researchers in a way that feels both pleasant and creative. “I like to
recruit,” he told me. “My management style has always been to find
outstanding people and let them run with the ball.” At Renaissance, he
said, he had sometimes worked on its algorithms (“There are zillions
of them!”), and at the Flatiron Institute he occasionally made
substantive suggestions. When Olga Troyanskaya began working on
the connection between genes and autism symptoms, Simons
proposed a tweak to the algorithm that she was developing, to help it
map the information more efficiently. “It did,” he told me. Troyanskaya
offered to list him as an author on the resulting paper, but Simons
prefers to stay out of the spotlight. He politely declined.
For Simons, ideas and money have always been intertwined. His
cousin Richard Lourie, a writer, told me a story about their grandfather,
who ran a shoe factory: on payday, he let the two boys hold piles of
cash “as high as our heads.” Lourie recalled, “We both loved it!” But, at
other times, Simons could be so intensely withdrawn that Lourie
worried that he was sick. “He would just say, ‘I was thinking,’ ” Lourie
told me. In 1955, when Simons was seventeen, he enrolled at M.I.T.
and fell in love with mathematics. He received his Ph.D. at U.C.
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
13 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
Berkeley, when he was twenty-three. Soon, he was working at the
federally funded Institute for Defense Analyses, in its élite
cryptography group, which is based in Princeton. “Our job was to
break other countries’ codes and to design our own,” Simons said. “I
was lucky enough to do some very good mathematics while I was
there, and I enjoyed coming up with an algorithm and seeing it tested
on a computer. I couldn’t program to save my life, but I did solve a
long-standing problem in the field.” (He could not discuss that work, he
said, because it remains highly classified.) He was fired from the I.D.A.
in 1968, after telling a Newsweek reporter that he opposed the
Vietnam War, and that until it was over he would work only on personal
projects.
After his departure, Simons was named the head of the math
department at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. His
chairmanship coincided with the era of Nelson Rockefeller, the
ambitious governor of New York, who wanted the school to be the
“Berkeley of the East.” Under Simons, the department expanded and
gained in prestige. “He already was a combination of ringleader and
master of ceremonies and energizer,” Tony Phillips, a mathematician
who worked with Simons, recalled. While Simons was at Stony Brook,
he won the Veblen Prize, one of America’s top math honors, for work
in differential geometry, the study of surfaces and their shapes in
multiple dimensions. He also collaborated with Shiing-Shen Chern on
the Chern-Simons theory. “Yeah, I was a good mathematician,” he
said. “I wasn’t the greatest in the world, but I was pretty good.”
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
14 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
“Behind one of these doors is a ferocious tiger. Behind the other is a
beautiful lady. There might also be a tiger there, too. I buy so many
tigers it’s basically become a storage issue at this point.”
All along, Simons was thinking about how to become rich. While at
Berkeley, he bought soybean futures and went to the exchange in San
Francisco to watch them being traded. (“They went up!” he said. “And
then they went back down.”) In the late seventies, not long after he
won the Veblen Prize, Simons founded a small investment firm in an
office park near Stony Brook. At the time, he felt stymied by a
mathematical problem involving simplexes—a simplex is the polygon
with the fewest vertices in any given dimension—and he wanted a
break. He tried his hand at currency trading, and then at commodities,
but he didn’t enjoy the experience. It was the investing equivalent of
wet-lab work. “It was fundamental trading, not systematic,” he said. “It
was very gut-wrenching.” He felt that there must be a more statistical
way to make money in the market. “I looked at the price charts and
analyzed them, and they didn’t look random to me,” he says. “They
looked kind of random, but not completely random. I felt there had to
be some anomalies in this data which could be exploited.”
He hired another mathematician, whom he’d met at the I.D.A., and
they began to create models that predicted the direction of currency
prices. Simons told me that he staffed his “crazy hedge fund”—the
company that became Renaissance Technologies—not with
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
15 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
financiers but with physicists, astronomers, and mathematicians. He
also invested heavily in computers and in the people who ran them. “If
you’re going to analyze data, it really has to be clean,” he said.
“Suppose it’s a series of stock prices. 31¼, 62½. Wait, stocks don’t
double in a day—so there’s an error in the data! There’s all kinds of
ways to get bugs out of data, and it’s important, because they can
really screw you up.”
He encouraged interaction and debate among the researchers.
“Everything was collaboration at Renaissance, or a great deal of it,” he
said. “It was a very open atmosphere.” Former colleagues agree that
Simons was an exceptional manager. He understood what scientists
enjoyed, and often arranged quirky bonding exercises: at one point,
Renaissance employees competed to see who could ride a bicycle
along a particular path at the slowest speed without falling over.
Renaissance has had an unprecedented run. Bloomberg Markets, in
an article last year, called the firm’s signature product, the Medallion
Fund, “perhaps the world’s greatest moneymaking machine.” For
nearly three decades, it has gone up by eighty per cent annually, on
average, before fees. Renaissance’s other, bigger funds have done
less well. Simons said that this is a consequence of their size: large
amounts of money cannot be traded as quickly, and longer-term
trading makes algorithms less useful. “It’s like the weather,” he says—
the nearer in, the higher the certainty.
Simons made his first million dollars by his early forties, his first billion
by his sixties. “It was fun making the money,” he said. At seventy-one,
he retired, turning the fund’s management over to two speech-
recognition experts whom he’d brought on board in 1993, Peter
Brown and Robert Mercer. Simons told me that “language is very
predictive,” and he foresaw that Brown and Mercer could apply their
skills to the markets. In an e-mail, Brown, who is now Renaissance’s
C.E.O., said, “Jim’s genius was in seeing the possibilities for
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
16 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
quantitative trading long before others did and in setting up a company
in which he provided outstanding scientists with the resources,
environment, and incentives to produce.” Brown also observed, “His
role was more in setting the general direction of the company than in
developing the technology.”
One thing that Simons did not predict is that Mercer would become
one of the most divisive figures in American politics. During the 2016
election cycle, Mercer, a far-right conservative, spent more than
twenty million dollars, eventually throwing his weight behind the
candidacy of Donald Trump. He is likely the single biggest donor to the
alt-right, supplying millions of dollars to Breitbart, the incendiary Web
site run by Steve Bannon. Simons described Mercer’s current politics
as a transformation that has surprised him. “I’ve talked to him a few
times, but he is just very different from me, and I can’t change him,”
Simons said. He added, “I like him.”
In October, Simons, who is the non-executive chairman of
Renaissance’s board, encouraged Mercer to resign from his
management position at the firm. Mercer did so. Simons said that the
decision was practical, not political. Mercer’s growing notoriety was
“not so good for morale,” he explained. “One of our very best people
had just said he was quitting,” he noted, and “another of the very best
people seemed to be on the verge.” Simons checked in with the firm’s
members recently, and he believes that he got the data he wanted:
morale has improved. “I think I was right,” he said.
Simons himself contributed twenty-six million dollars in the 2016
election cycle—to liberal causes. He told me that he has always been
a Democrat, because of the Party’s commitment to the poor. He sees
no disconnect in paying the least possible in taxes while supporting a
party that would like him to pay more. “I’m happy to be one of the rich
folks, but I think government ought to do as much as it can to help
ordinary folks get on with their lives,” he said. As adept as he is in
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
17 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
math, he said that he was mystified by the way rich Americans had
mopped up so much wealth in recent decades. “I don’t know exactly
why such a skewing has occurred,” he said. “I’m not an economist,
and I haven’t studied the question, but it doesn’t feel right to me to
have that kind of balance—or imbalance.” After some reflection, he
told me that he would support a rise in the top tax bracket. I could
almost hear him running numbers in his head about his net worth. “A
rise from forty per cent to fifty per cent would not be a tragedy,” he said.
“Depending on how the government spends the money.”
Although Simons seems determined to give an enormous part of his
fortune away, he is not embarrassed to spend lavishly. He has a forty-
eight-million-dollar apartment overlooking Central Park, and he owns
a sixty-five-million-dollar jet, which he rents to others when he’s not
using it. (Smoking is permitted on board.) He also has a two-hundred-
and-twenty-foot yacht, called the Archimedes, which he sometimes
uses to take his old math friends to extraordinary places. He recently
cruised through French Polynesia with two of his Stony Brook
colleagues, Jeff Cheeger and Tony Phillips. “Jeff had a bee in his
bonnet about Pontryagin classes,” Phillips recalled, amused. “It
became annoying. He kept wanting to talk about it.” Simons told me
that he has done a lot of thinking on yacht trips himself, noting, “I once
proved a nice theorem on the boat.”
Jim and Marilyn Simons became major charitable donors in the
nineteen-nineties, when they launched their foundation. They have
funded a math center at Stony Brook, and a center for computer
science at Berkeley. The foundation has also given grants—for autism
research, for a giant telescope in Chile that will hunt for gravitational
waves from the big bang—that are collectively worth two and a half
billion dollars. But Simons’s role in these projects was relatively
limited, and when he retired he found himself spending most of his
time managing his charitable assets and evaluating grant
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
18 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
applications. During this period, his loved ones sensed that he was
less happy. “He likes to work,” Marilyn said. Lourie, his cousin, told me,
“He would say that he had lots of projects, but no one project.”
Simons says that he was fine, thank you: he was plenty busy, and
wasn’t looking for a new job. But he did want to heighten the
foundation’s impact on the sciences. In 2012, he and Marilyn
convened an informal conference at the Buttermilk Falls Hotel, in
upstate New York. Participants were asked to identify collaborative,
goal-driven projects that were not being funded by other sources. This
was a technique that he had often used: tapping the opinions of well-
informed people and then making a decision with his gut. “Taste in
science is very important,” Simons told me. “To distinguish what’s a
good problem and what’s a problem that no one’s going to care about
the answer to anyway—that’s taste. And I think I have good taste.”
Simons’s intellectual reputation insured that he would have top minds
at the meeting. He’s not “that billionaire guy,” Cheeger said. “He’s
someone who’s a legend in the math community.” Chairing the
conference was David Baltimore, the Nobel Prize winner and the
former president of Caltech. The geneticist Eric Lander was also
present, along with a variety of physicists, mathematicians, biologists,
and astronomers.
For some participants, the gathering offered an opportunity to pitch
ambitious projects to a potential patron. This represented a return to
an old way of doing science. In the years before the Second World
War, private institutions such as Rockefeller University, in Manhattan,
and the Institute for Advanced Study, which was funded by the
Bamberger’s department-store heirs, came of age. But by the fifties
the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation,
and other governmental organizations were paying for the vast
majority of scientific research in America. For half a century, the
government remained the dominant funder. But in the early aughts
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
19 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
federal support began to dwindle, and philanthropy came roaring
back, led by Silicon Valley billionaires. In 2015, for the first time since
the Second World War, private money, including corporate
contributions, provided most of the funding for basic-science research.
Governmental granting organizations, such as the National Science
Foundation, tend to give money for incremental research. People with
sustained track records are favored; the average age of scientists with
a Ph.D. who receive their first grant from the National Institutes of
Health is forty-three. Speculative projects are generally avoided. At
Simons’s gathering, the participants were encouraged to propose
projects whose payoff might not be immediate. Baltimore proposed
exploring immune-system engineering; an astronomer suggested
investigating the dark-matter universe; a paleogeneticist made a case
for mapping the human genome’s evolution through time.
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
20 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
One scholar in attendance, Ingrid Daubechies, a math professor at
Duke, had calculated what type of project Simons might find
especially appealing. She knew how he had made his fortune, and
she knew that the amount of data in the science world had exploded.
Maybe, Daubechies suggested at the meeting, the foundation should
fund not new research but better mechanisms for interpreting existing
data. A new research center could “prospect for interesting data sets
where people intuit that there’s more structure than can be gotten out
now, but that aren’t so complicated that it’s hopeless.”
Scientists, Simons knew, were drowning in data. New technologies
like optogenetics—using light to activate cells in living tissue—had
generated a flood of information about the human brain. Infrared
imaging, gravitational-wave detection devices, and radio telescopes
relayed a constant stream of data about the cosmos. Researchers
often acquired hundreds of terabytes of data in a single experiment.
Yet, despite this revolutionary development, Daubechies said,
relatively little effort had been made to refine our methods of data
computation.
Her proposal resonated with Simons. He returned to New York City,
and kept mulling over the idea. “The more I thought about it, the more I
liked it,” he told me. “And Marilyn liked it.” David Baltimore was not
surprised when Simons chose Daubechies’s project. “I’m a life
scientist, but Jim’s a mathematician,” he said. Daubechies had
suggested that the center be situated at Duke, but the Simonses had
a different idea: to establish a center near their Manhattan foundation.
They asked each other, “Why not do it in-house?”
Simons hopes that the Flatiron Institute will have the expansively
creative atmosphere of Bell Labs, the storied offshoot of the telephone
monopoly, whose heyday lasted from the mid-forties to the eighties.
Researchers there were asked to follow their passions, and the result
was eight Nobel Prizes and the invention of the transistor. Simons had
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
21 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
a similarly idyllic experience at the Institute for Defense Analyses,
where he spent half his time cracking codes and the other half
pursuing his own mathematical interests. When setting up
Renaissance, Simons told me, he made sure that, despite the
extraordinary pressure, his firm was a pleasant and stimulating place
to work, with frequent lectures and outings. Peter Brown,
Renaissance’s C.E.O., recalled, “Working for Jim, you had the feeling
that you had better produce, because he had pretty much removed
every excuse for not producing.”
Sharing had been an important part of Renaissance’s culture.
“Everyone knew what everyone else was doing,” Simons said. “They
could pitch in and say, ‘Try that!’ ” He wants information to flow among
groups at the Flatiron Institute, too, so there are plenty of chalkboards
in the hallways, and communal areas—coffee nooks, tuffets arranged
in rows—where fellows can “sit around and schmooze.” He observed,
“An algorithm that’s good for spike sorting—some version of it might
conceivably be good for star sorting, or for looking at other things in
another field.” One day in June, I passed a chalkboard that was
covered with an equation written by David Spergel, the head of the
astronomy division. It demonstrated that the way a supernova
explosion drives galactic winds also captures the behavior of the
movement of waves in oceans and, by implication, the movement of
fluids in cells.
When I visited the institute this fall, I saw many visualizations of
information on computer screens, and they underscored the
commonalities among the fellows’ data sets. The visual interface of a
biology algorithm displayed the balloon-like amino acids of a protein,
but they could have been on an astronomer’s computer: the image
reminded me of planets being born. An elegant pinwheel, designed to
map the links among genetic mutations, looked like an old-fashioned
representation of a planetary system in orbit. The program allowed
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
22 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
you to type in the name of a gene; it then ranked the diseases most
closely associated with that gene. The project, which works through
machine learning, draws on fifteen thousand gene samples from
patients and from laboratory cultures. The hope is to expand the set to
millions of gene samples.
I sat down with Christopher Hayward, a young astronomer who has a
Ph.D. from Harvard. He was working on a simulation of a crucial
cosmological moment, a billion years after the creation of the
universe, when smaller galaxies were cohering into larger ones. He
showed me a visualization depicting that moment, which included the
kind of spinning gaseous orbs that are familiar from any planetarium.
Then he clicked on the algorithm behind the visuals: a torrent of
incomprehensible digits in the simple typeface of Linux code. The
galaxy simulation, Hayward told me, had begun two months earlier,
and would continue for another two months, as he and other
researchers tried to understand the feedback loop between star
formation and black-hole formation. “The unique thing provided by the
Flatiron is that I can start a new simulation at any time and start
immediately,” he said. “Even at Harvard, you’re normally waiting in a
queue.”
Simons told me that in 2013, shortly after the Buttermilk Falls
conference, he decided to start a small “in-house group” to explore
“the scientific analysis of data.” He soon found someone who was
“stunningly qualified” to lead the group: Leslie Greengard, who had
been the head of the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, at
N.Y.U. Greengard had a medical degree, which he had never used,
and he wanted to throw himself into problems in biology. How could he
do that at a math institute? Simons made him a very attractive offer,
and Greengard accepted it. He quickly assembled a group that
included a systems biologist, a genomics expert, a neuroscientist, and
the two coders, Carriero and Fisk.
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
23 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
The group developed a series of software programs, including
MountainSort, the program that automates the output from
multielectrode recordings, and CaImAn, a machine-learning algorithm
that detects the release of calcium in neurons. Simons was so happy
with these results that he decided to proceed with the institute. To
insure that he got top talent, he offered fellows a fifty-per-cent salary
increase and the option to work only three days a week, which would
help them maintain a connection to their home institutions, where lab
work was done. Spergel, the astronomer, who has tenure at Princeton
(and was the runner-up in its most recent selection of a president),
immediately began recruiting applicants for a division of twenty
people. He told prospects, “You get to shape the direction of
computational astrophysics. You will be driving the field if you come
here.” Of the twelve offers he made to postdoctoral candidates, eight
said yes. “We didn’t even have a Web page yet!” he said.
In one of its opening gambits, the astronomy group has used high-
powered statistical analyses to challenge existing models of the
universe. A mapping project of stars in the Milky Way detected a
surprising number of twin stars. This finding suggests that, contrary to
what many astronomers believe, dark matter is not made up largely of
black holes, because the gravitational power of the black holes would
have forced many of the twin stars apart.
When Simons needed to find a leader for the quantum-physics
division, he took a similar “Ocean’s Eleven” approach. He held a
workshop on the subject and closely observed the participants. One of
them, a French physicist whom he had met several years earlier,
particularly struck him. “When he opened his mouth to speak,
everyone shut up to listen to what he had to say,” he said. “And I was
very impressed by that.” The man was Antoine Georges, of the
Collège de France. Simons was further excited when he learned of
one of Georges’s projects: research into the properties of
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
24 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
superconductive materials. Scientists have long dreamed of creating
a superconductor that works at room temperature. This might not
sound like a computational problem, but it is. Analyzing the electronic
properties of materials, particularly synthesized ones, “can require
hugely complex algorithms and much computing,” Simons explained.
If this breakthrough could be achieved, many of the constraints of
engineering would disappear: electricity could travel without loss, and
trains that levitate instead of running on tracks would become
commonplace. “It would be worth trillions and trillions of dollars in
applications,” Simons said.
The Flatiron Institute, Simons likes to say, is “giving everything away,”
but the claim sometimes seemed tentative, like an alcoholic pushing
away a drink. “No, we’re not in it for the money,” he told me at one
point. “Well, money can’t hurt. But, no, we’re not in it for the money.”
Superconductivity, he admitted, aroused temptation. “If you
understand enough about materials, you could possibly crack that
problem and probably make a lot of money for the foundation,” he told
me. Georges, for his part, seemed worried that Simons was overly
focussed on an extremely difficult problem. “Such superconductivity is
absolutely not something I want to promise,” Georges told me,
explaining that he’d be happy if his computations helped scientists to
create a better magnet. Before agreeing to move to the United States,
he asked Simons to make a clear commitment to computational
science. Simons had the Flatiron’s board pass a resolution
guaranteeing to fund the institute for at least fifty years. Georges
accepted the offer.
Flatiron Institute researchers don’t have to teach, and they don’t have
to apply for grants, which can consume much of an academic’s time.
Nearly all the institute’s senior hires come from universities, and most
of these universities are nearby, leading to some resentment. “People
feel we have so many resources that we’re going to take over the
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
25 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
world,” Spergel said. In an e-mail, one competitor complained to
Spergel that the Flatiron was “a 1000 pound gorilla,” adding that, of the
people he had recently been trying to recruit, all of them had “an offer
from you.” Another researcher pointed out that, as powerful as
computational science has become, it still relies on the kind of
experimental science that the institute does not fund. In an e-mail, the
researcher noted, “The predictions from the computation can only
ever be as good as the data that has been generated. (I think!)”
Simons’s willingness to pay more than the most élite academic
institutions makes many people uncomfortable. Ray Madoff, who runs
the Boston College Law School Forum on Philanthropy and the Public
Good, said, “It shows what a lot of people suspected, which is that the
wealthy play by their own rules. The rich are running things, and we’re
just visiting their world.” It wasn’t so long ago that private foundations
could be established only by an act of Congress, in part because they
were considered so inimical to democracy. In 1913, Congress refused
John D. Rockefeller’s request to establish his foundation. He had to go
to the New York State Legislature for a charter instead.
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
26 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
Uros Seljak, who directs U.C. Berkeley’s department of astronomy
and physics, warned that private foundations can be capricious. “Yes,
sure, they have a lot of money and they can put in a lot of money, but
they can also take it away and put it somewhere else.” Tom Insel, who
led the National Institute of Mental Health for more than a decade,
expressed a different worry. “My concern is that the generosity of Jim
Simons will let the rest of us off the hook,” he said. “Will we decide that
science can be supported as a private endeavor, and forfeit our
commitment to use taxpayer dollars for science? Will we forget that
science is an investment, not a cost?”
The Simons Foundation has channelled hundreds of millions of
dollars into autism research—seventy-five million dollars this year
alone. It is no coincidence that the Simonses have a family member
who is on the spectrum. And, despite the importance of the research,
is it not possible that these millions would be better spent on a different
syndrome, either because it affects even more people or because it
might be more readily solved? Simons does not think so. He trusts his
taste. “We’ve really transformed that field,” he said. Some of the work
he has funded, he noted, “has employed a very mathematical
approach to finding new genes.”
One afternoon this fall, the heads of the institute’s three divisions sat
with Simons at a conference table near his office. All the participants
were bald men with glasses, and the conversation was fast, lightly
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
27 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
mocking, and remarkably well informed. You felt as though you were
in the presence of exceptional minds. Simons looked in his element:
he might have been back at Stony Brook or Renaissance.
The men had gathered, in part, to discuss adding a fourth division.
Simons asked his lieutenants for suggestions. Spergel suggested
computational epidemiology and public health. But was the field,
Greengard asked, truly “Flatiron-ready”? Spergel countered that it
was an area in which “some smart people could really have an
impact.” Simons stepped in to say that, if they couldn’t find someone
great to “honcho” a workshop on the topic, they should let it drop for
now.
A second prospect was computational neuroscience. A prominent
N.Y.U. researcher was already scheduled to make a presentation at
the institute in the winter, but Simons was doubtful. “Neuroscience is
this huge field,” he said. “I don’t know if we can make an important
dent in it or not. ‘How the brain works’ is arguably right up there with
‘How is the universe formed?’ as a difficult problem.” This, too, was put
aside.
Next came the geosciences. Simons lit up. He liked the complexity of
the problems that needed to be solved. The institute could field-test
the idea with a workshop, and it could include atmospheric science
and ocean science, so that there was a connection to climate-change
research. “My guess is there’s room to do good work there,” he said.
The others cautioned that thousands of researchers were already
working on climate change. Simons pushed back: “Well, if you added
one person who was a real atmospheric guy, eh, that wouldn’t hurt.”
The others assented. Simons was pleased, if unsurprised, to have got
his way. For all his affability, he casts the deciding vote.
On November 3rd, a “bio-geoscientist” from Caltech, John Grotzinger,
came to talk to the Simonses, two of the three division heads, the
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
28 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
computing chiefs, and a few others. He commented on the difficulty
that academia has in getting new telescopes built. “It’s not just
Caltech,” he said. “It’s everyone.”
Simons mentioned the telescope that he had helped fund in Chile; it
will cost him about forty million dollars. “We’re putting up this big
observatory in the Atacama Desert—it’s going to be beautiful,” he
said. “We’re going to study the cosmic microwave background.”
“Wow,” Grotzinger said.
Grotzinger, who was advising, not seeking a job, elegantly guided the
group through the challenges of climate modelling. Many of the
problems were familiar to the Flatiron staff. “Most of the data actually
gets ignored,” Grotzinger explained. And there was a problem of
collaboration. He was a specialist in historical climate change—
specifically, what had caused the great Permian extinction, during
which virtually all species died. To properly assess this cataclysm, you
had to understand both the rock record and the ocean’s composition,
but, Grotzinger said, “geologists don’t have a history of interacting with
physical oceanographers.” He talked about how his best collaboration
had resulted from having had lunch with an oceanographer, and how
rare this was. Climate modelling, he said, was an intrinsically difficult
problem made worse by the structural divisions of academia. “They
will grope their way to a solution probably in the next fifty years,”
Grotzinger said. “But, if you had it all under one umbrella, I think it
could result in a major breakthrough.”
Simons and his team were interested. It seemed Flatiron-ready. The
scientists asked Grotzinger how many fellows, and how much
computing power, such a group would need. Grotzinger estimated
that a division would need at least fifty researchers to be effective.
“I would include some programmers,” Simons chimed in.
After the meeting, Simons said that he hopes to have his fourth
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
29 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
division in place by next September. I asked him: Why stop there?
Why not eight units? Why not Simons University? He had the money,
after all. But he insisted that four divisions was all he could handle, if
he wanted both first-class work and a collaborative atmosphere. He
added that he needed to manage it all, with his “light touch.”
Simons understood that, whatever structure he set up, it ultimately
needed to function well without his supervision. The foundation had
signed a thirty-five-year lease on the institute’s building, with an option
to renew for fifteen more. As long as the tax laws didn’t change
dramatically, Simons’s fortune could keep the institute going in
perpetuity. But humans, he realized, were not machines. “I’m hoping
this is going to last a hundred years,” he told me. “But I won’t see it.” ♦
Jim Simons, the Numbers King | The New Yorker
about:reader?url=https%3A%2F%2Farchive.is%2F2025010300282...
30 of 30
12/06/2025, 20:10
